WELCOME TO THE
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8TH, TWENTY
TWENTY TWO MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
THE MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY THE
ASSUME MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
WHO WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HEARINGS OR OTHER MATTERS MAY
DO SO VIA TELEPHONE ONLY TO
SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE
CALL EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN
EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
OR TWO ONE THREE THREE THREE
EIGHT EIGHT FOUR SEVEN SEVEN
AND ENTER BEATING I.D. NINE
SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO ONE
FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA AND THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
THE BROADCAST OF THIS MEETING
ON CHANNEL 16 AT&amp;T CHANNEL
NINETY NINE AND ONLINE AT B.W.
THAT DAY TO GOV. DOUGLAS WATCH
S.T. AND SO WE INTEND TO
CONDUCT THIS MEETING SIMILARLY
TO AN IN-PERSON MEETING.
HOWEVER PLEASE BE PATIENT IF
THERE ARE ANY TECHNICAL ISSUES
AND JUST A REMINDER THAT PUBLIC
COMMENT WILL BE ON THE
TELEPHONE ONLY.
&gt;&gt; NO, THAT&apos;S NOT RIGHT.
OK, WE WILL ACCEPT PUBLIC
COMMENT THROUGH THE TELEPHONE
IN PERSON AND ON ZOOME AS WELL
.
&gt;&gt; MOVING ON, WE&apos;RE GOING TO GO
TO ROLL CALL MISS THATCHER,
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER QUIJADA HERE.
COMMISSIONER FORTNER
COMMISSIONER RACHLIN HERE,
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE
COMMISSIONER WHAT ROSS
COMMISSIONER WILLIS HERE.
COMMISSIONER EVERSON, YOU HAVE
A QUORUM AND I DO EXPECT ONE OR
TWO MORE.
&gt;&gt; OK, I&apos;LL TALK SLOWLY NO
DOUBT PART C OF THE MEETING IS
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA ITEM OVER
HERE?
&gt;&gt; OK, HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTION.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED NOW WE WILL MOVE ON
TO D PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS PLEASE
CALL THIS IS A DIFFERENT PHONE
NUMBER THAN I JUST LISTED
EARLIER.
I&apos;M JUST SEEING TO SO I&apos;M GOING
TO USE THE ONE ON THE AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; YES.
TOP THE AGENDA HERE.
&gt;&gt; OK, THIS IS THE NUMBER TO
CALL TWO OH SIX THREE THREE
SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR
TWO ONE THREE THREE THREE EIGHT
EIGHT FOUR SEVEN SEVEN OR EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN OR EIGHT
EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT
ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
INTERMEETING ID NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU HAVE TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
BY HITTING START ON YOUR PHONE
AND YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ONE I DON&apos;T
SEE ANY CALLERS RAISING THEIR
HANDS IN THE ZOOME ROOM.
&gt;&gt; YOU MIGHT WANT TO TAKE A
LOOK AT THE AUDIENCE.
&gt;&gt; NO ONE AT THE AUDIENCE
COMING TO THE PODIUM SO WE&apos;LL
MOVE ON TO ANY UNFINISHED
BUSINESS AND THERE IS NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO WE&apos;LL
MOVE RIGHT HAND ENOUGH HEARINGS
AND WE WILL NOW START ON
HEARING F1 TO AWAIT WEST
LIBERTY.
&gt;&gt; YES.
THATCHER, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ALL RIGHT TOO.
&gt;&gt; WEST LIBERTY IS THE SINGLE
STORY LABOR HALL IT WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN NINETEEN THIRTY
FEATURES A DEEP BRICK CORNICE
ARCHED TRANSOMS THERE WE GO
STEEL WINDOWS AND BRICK AND
STONE TRIM.
THIS WAS ONCE JOHNSON CLAIR&apos;S
RAINBOW MULTIMEDIA CORPORATION
BUSINESS ADDRESS.
IT WAS PAINTED IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY SIX ARCHITECTS FOR AND
SEVERAL OTHER BUSINESSES HAD
OFFICES HERE IN THE EIGHTIES
WAS USED AS THE UNION HALL
KITCHEN AND THE TWO THOUSANDS
WERE COOKING WAS DONE FOR THE
FORMER MARX CARTS AND IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN THE SPACE WAS
CONVERTED INTO CHAO RESTAURANT.
THE APPLICANT SEEKING APPROVAL
TO INSTALL A FABRIC AWNING WITH
AN ALUMINUM FRAME ON THE STORE
FRONT ACTUALLY SEVERAL FABRIC
AWNINGS.
LET ME RUN THROUGH THIS.
&gt;&gt; SORRY.
THERE WE GO.
IT&apos;S AN INTERESTING BUILDING.
IT&apos;S VERY UNIQUE TO DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR BECAUSE IT HAS ALL
THESE ARCHITECT WINDOWS.
THE WINDOWS ARE COOL.
THEY&apos;RE THEY&apos;RE STEEL.
THEY&apos;RE NOT EVEN CASEMENT&apos;S
DOWN BELOW.
I HAVE A LITTLE WINDOW WITHIN
THE LARGER WINDOW SO ONLY THE
CENTER PANES OPEN AND THEN UP
ON TOP THERE&apos;S A SORT OF A
MODIFIED SPIDER WEB DESIGN OR
SUNRISE DESIGN OR IT DOESN&apos;T
REALLY MATCH ANYTHING THAT YOU
WOULD SEE IN A MODERN CATALOG.
IF YOU LOOK CLOSELY YOU&apos;LL SEE
THAT THERE ARE TWO COURSES
OF DECORATIVE BRICK HERE ALL
THE WAY DOWN.
ONE STANDS A LITTLE PROUD
OF THE THE REST OF THE FACE
BRICK THEN ONE IS A LITTLE
INSET BUT AN INCH AND THEN
THESE GUYS ARE INSET EVEN
THOUGH THIS IS ALL BRICK DOWN
BELOW THE SILL AS WELL.
THE PROPOSAL IS TO MOUNT
AWNINGS OVER ARCH TOPS AND THE
OUTER COURSE OF BRICK.
HERE&apos;S A PHOTO ON THE TOP
OF WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE NOW AND
THE PHOTO ON THE BOTTOM WITH
THE PROPOSED AWNINGS NORMALLY
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES SAY NO WATERFALL OR
CURVED AWNINGS BUT THAT IS A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT HERE
BECAUSE IT TYPICALLY APPLIES TO
RECTANGULAR OR SQUARE WINDOWS.
I CAN THINK OF A CERTAIN ICE
CREAM BUSINESS ON EAST LIBERTY
THAT HAS WATERFALL AWNINGS OVER
THERE.
TRANSAM AND IT DOESN&apos;T REALLY
FIT THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING.
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE ALREADY
STARTING WITH WITH ROUND TOPS.
THESE AREN&apos;T THESE ARE LITTLE
YOU CAN SEE THAT EACH ONE SAYS
EVERGREEN AS WELL.
THEY&apos;RE ONLY FOUR FEET FOUR
INCHES WIDE, TWO FEET TWO
INCHES TALL AND DEEP.
IT&apos;S I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THEY&apos;RE
INTENDED TO BE USED FOR
SHADING.
WE&apos;LL GET TO THE APPLICANT IN
JUST A SECOND.
MAYBE YOU CAN ANSWER THAT.
THEY MAY JUST BE MORE
DECORATIVE AND THERE&apos;S
INFORMATION ON ATTACHMENTS TO
THE WALL OF THE FRAME AND
THERE&apos;S MORE IN THE PACKET THAT
I DIDN&apos;T INCLUDE HERE.
THE FASTENERS WILL BE PLACED IN
THE MORTAR JOINTS ONLY THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S PROMINENT HERE ON THE
PLANS AND LET&apos;S SEE THE ONLY
THING I WANTED TO MENTION
BEFORE I GET INTO THE STANDARDS
IS YOU&apos;LL NOTICE UP HERE
THERE&apos;S AN X NEAR THE OLD CHAO
SIGN.
IT SAYS EXISTING LINE WILL BE
REMOVED.
I WANT TO TALK TO THE APPLICANT
ABOUT THAT AS WELL BECAUSE I
NOTICED WE NOTICED WHEN THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS OUT THAT
THAT WAS REFACED AND NOW SAYS
EVERGREEN AS IF IT&apos;S NOT GOING
TO BE REMOVED.
I DON&apos;T FEEL STRONGLY ONE WAY
OR THE OTHER.
I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO KNOW IF THAT
SHOULD BE A PART OF THIS OR
NOT.
IT SOUNDS LIKE MAYBE IT
SHOULDN&apos;T.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S SEE FROM THE SECRETARY
INTERIOR STANDARDS NO TO SAYS
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF A
PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED AND
PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURES, SPACES
AND SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS ARE
RELATED.
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSING SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES FOR
STOREFRONTS.
IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW DESIGN THAT IS
IN COMPATABLE SIZE SCALE
MATERIAL AND COLOR OR USE
INAPPROPRIATELY SCALED SIGNS OR
LOGOS OR OTHER TYPES OF SIGNS
THAT OBSCURE DAMAGE OR DESTROY
REMAINING CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES OF HISTORIC BUILDING
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE FOR PROJECTING
THE AWNING FROM THE FACE OF THE
BUILDING NO MORE THAN FOUR FEET
.
THIS IS FINE.
THIS IS ONLY A LITTLE OVER TWO
FEET.
IT&apos;S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO ATTACH
THE AWNING JUST BELOW THE
STOREFRONT CORNICE AND FITTING
IT WITHIN A STOREFRONT OPENING
AND MOUNTING THE AWNING OR
BANNERS ON MASONRY STRUCTURES
THROUGH THE MORTAR JOINTS.
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE.
HERE&apos;S THAT ONE TO USE BOX
OF CURVED OR WATERFALL SHAPED
AWNINGS SO LET&apos;S SEE LET&apos;S GO
BACK UP TO THE PICTURES.
&gt;&gt; THESE AWNINGS ARE REALLY
VERY SMALL IF THEY&apos;RE MOUNTED
IN THE MORTAR JOINTS I HAVE NO
OBJECTIONS.
YOU&apos;LL STILL BE ABLE TO SEE
THAT COOL HALF ROUND WINDOW.
MAYBE NOT SO MUCH FROM THE
STREET.
THEY&apos;RE KIND OF HARD TO NOTICE
ANYWAY FROM THE STREET AND AND
IF NOTHING ELSE THIS WILL BE A
LITTLE BIT EXTRA PROTECTION FOR
THEM.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S SEE.
I DON&apos;T HAVE A WHOLE LOT MORE
TO ADD ON THIS APPLICATION
STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL
BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE COMPATIBLE WITH
THE BUILDING AND DO NOT DETRACT
FROM THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING.
SHOULD ALSO NOTE THAT THERE
REALLY AREN&apos;T ANY CLOSE
NEIGHBORS HERE.
THERE AREN&apos;T ANY AWNINGS NEARBY
.
WE&apos;VE GOT DOWNTOWN HOME AND
GARDEN JUST TO THE EAST TO THE
RIGHT AND TO THE LEFT.
IT&apos;S THE END OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT AND THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A
SMALL BLOCK OFFICE BUILDING
THAT&apos;S PRETTY NONDESCRIPT PAST
PARKING LOT.
SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THIS APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
OK, THANK YOU.
WELL, COMMISSIONERS QUIJANO AND
FORTNER WERE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS?
I REALLY DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH MORE
TO ADD TO THAT REPORT.
VERY THOROUGH AND REALLY WE
WERE JUST LOOKING AT THE YOU
KNOW, THAT OUTER CORE OF BRICK
AND YOU KNOW, THE MORTAR JOINTS
I THINK IN THE APPLICATION
ITSELF THAT THEY BE MOUNTED TO
THE MORTGAGE GIANTS THAT ALL
THE BRICK LOOKS PRETTY WELL
INTACT.
YOU KNOW IT IS PAINTED BUT IT
LOOKS IN GOOD.
I WOULD ALSO SUPPORT THE I
MISSED THIS ONE.
OK, VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;VE GOT THE APPLICANT
YOU&apos;RE THE APPLICANT I ASSUME.
RIGHT.
SO CAN YOU PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND WE JUST WOULD LIKE TO
KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD TO THE STAFF REPORT OR THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT OR
REALLY ANY COMMENTS WHATSOEVER
.
BILL BOUCHET MARY GROVE ON
TWELVE&apos;S SEVEN HUNDRED MERRYMAN
ROAD LIVONIA, MICHIGAN WHERE
THE SHARPEST WE&apos;LL MAKE IT
THERE EVERYTHING I DON&apos;T REALLY
HAVE A LOT TO ADD.
JILL DID A GOOD JOB DESCRIBING
IT.
IT&apos;S A CLOTH FABRIC.
IT LOOKS NICE.
I THINK IT HAD A CHANCE A
LITTLE BIT GIVE IT A LITTLE BIT
MORE STREET APPEAL.
I THINK IT&apos;LL LOOK FINE AND I
THINK THAT&apos;S ABOUT IT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE&apos;RE FINE.
DO YOU HAPPEN TO KNOW WHY THE
OWNERS OR THE THE RESTAURANT
OWNERS ARE REQUESTING THE THE
AWNINGS IS IT FOR COULD MAKE IT
EASIER TO IDENTIFY TO SEE IT?
MM HMM.
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES THESE
BUILDINGS ARE THE SAME FOR A
LONG TIME AND NO ONE EVEN
NOTICES OVER THERE AFTER A
WHILE AND THIS WILL HELP
IDENTIFY THAT THERE&apos;S SOMETHING
NEW IN THERE, SOMETHING TO
CHECK OUT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
COMMISSIONERS.
&gt;&gt; ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
JUST THE ONE QUESTION ABOUT THE
JEWELRIES ABOUT THE EXISTING
SAYAM OVER THE ENTRY.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
I I HAVE NO IDEA.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THEY&apos;RE
DOING.
SO I GUESS THAT THAT&apos;S A
DIFFERENT APPLICATION THEN.
WELL, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S YES AND NO
BECAUSE IT&apos;S ER IT&apos;S THERE SO
IT IT JUST AS LONG AS YOU DON&apos;T
BASE YOUR APPROVAL ON THE SIGN
BEING REMOVED LIKE CONDITION
THAT OR SOMETHING I THINK
YOU&apos;RE FINE OK VERY GOOD YOU&apos;RE
GOOD.
YEAH OK OK NO MORE QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS
APPLICATION TO AWAIT WEST
LIBERTY.
YOU CAN BE MADE BY CALLING THE
PHONE NUMBER ON THE TOP OF THE
AGENDA AND ENTER THE MEETING.
I&apos;D ALSO AT THE TOP OF THE
AGENDA.
SO RAISE YOUR HAND BY PRESSING
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
THERE&apos;S NO ONE HERE PRESENT TO
COMMENT PUBLICLY IT LOOKS I
DON&apos;T SEE IT NO ONE&apos;S RAISING
THEIR HAND IN THE ZOUMA SO I
THINK YOU&apos;RE GOOD.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
OK, I WILL NOW CLOSE A PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THIS
APPLICATION AND I WOULD ASK IF
ANY COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION.
COMMISSIONER BEVERLEY, I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSIONER ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT 008 WEST
LIBERTY STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE MAIN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO INSTALL
SIX NEW AWNINGS AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO AND NINE AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR STAFF AND THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR AWNINGS
THAT IS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
WILLIS AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHYTE.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
OK, SEEING NO DISCUSSION I WILL
GO TO A VOTE.
&gt;&gt; ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
&gt;&gt; ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANKS OK THANK YOU.
THANK GOOD.
VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; OK WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO EF
TWO SIX TWENTY EIGHT S FIRST IS
THAT YOUR STAFF REPORT PLEASE.
YES
JUST ONE MOMENT I WANT TO
GET THE APPLICANT IN HERE SHE&apos;S
NOT LETTING HER PROMOTE FOR
SOME REASON OK
OK THERE GOES OK
OK SIX TWENTY EIGHT S FIRST
STREET IS IN THE BROADWAY
HISTORIC DISTRICT
.
&gt;&gt; NO IT&apos;S NOT THE ONLY SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT WE AT
BROADWAY LATER TONIGHT.
THIS IS A TINY TWO STORY HOUSE
FEATURES A FORWARD FRONT PORCH
AND GABLE CORNER RETURNS IT
APPEARS IN THE EIGHTEEN NINETY
FOUR PULQUE CITY DIRECTORY AS
THEY FIEGEL HOME AT ONE TWENTY
SIX S FIRST BUT ITS
CONSTRUCTION DATE IS UNKNOWN.
THE
TWO STOREY FRONT AND ONE
STORY REAR WINGS APPEAR ON THE
NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE AND FORTY
EIGHT SANBORN&apos;S THE DC APPROVED
REPLACEMENT OF A OF A MODERN IS
SHED ROOF ADDITION ON THE REAR
WITH A NEW EDITION
OF APPROXIMATELY THE SAME SIZE
IN 2017 THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING AGENCY APPROVAL TO
CONSTRUCT AN ELEVEN BY 18 FOOT
BRICK ACCESSORY BUILDING IN THE
BACKYARD THAT WOULD BE USED FOR
A HOME GYM.
ALL RIGHT, LOOKING AT THIS THE
PHOTO HERE THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE THIS IS TAKEN FROM THE
SIDEWALK WHERE YOU SEE THOSE
TWO CHAIRS IN THE BACK IS WHERE
THE SHED WOULD GO APPROXIMATELY
WHAT YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT HERE
BEHIND THE TWO CHAIRS IS THE
BACK OF THE NEIGHBORS GARAGE ON
SECOND STREET
.
NOW WE&apos;VE WALKED BACK AND WE&apos;RE
EVEN WITH THE NEW ADDITIONS ON
THE REAR OF THE HOUSE WHICH
LOOKS SMASHING HERE.
THE CHAIRS THEY&apos;VE GOT A GARAGE
IN THE DRIVEWAY GOING DOWN BY
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THERE&apos;S THE SITE ONCE AGAIN
WITH THAT NEIGHBOR&apos;S BRICK
WALL, THE BACK OF THEIR GARAGE
BEHIND.
SO HERE&apos;S UP IN THE LEFT HAND
CORNER IS THE PROPOSED WORKOUT
SHED.
IT IS 11 FEET BY 18 FEET.
IT&apos;S FIVE FEET OFF THE PROPERTY
LINES.
LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;LL BE ABOUT EIGHT
FEET FROM THAT BRICK WALL
BEHIND IT.
IT NEEDS COLD FOR ZONING FOR
SIZE AND PLACEMENT AND YOU CAN
SEE THAT THIS IS A BIG LOT.
THIS IS ORIGINAL OLD WEST SIDE
CITY LOT THAT HASN&apos;T BEEN
DIVIDED LIKE MOST OF THEM HAVE
BEEN.
IT IS ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
THREE FEET BY SIXTY SIX
ELEVATION DRAWINGS OF THE SHED.
&gt;&gt; IT IS IT IS BRICK IT&apos;S A
GRAY BRICK VENEER ON THE
EXTERIOR THAT HAS QUMU
FOUNDATION.
THERE ARE WINDOWS FACING THE
STREET THAT&apos;S THE EAST
ELEVATION HERE AND ON THE SOUTH
SIDE FACING INWARD TOWARD THEIR
OWN GARAGE THERE&apos;S A SLIDER AND
A COUPLE OF MORE WINDOWS A
COUPLE OF LIGHT FIXTURES FLANK
EITHER SIDE THAT S ELEVATION
THE SHED ROOF SLOPES TOWARD THE
TOWARD THE BACK TOWARDS THE
NORTH FLOORPLAN EASIEST FOR PAN
OVER 11 BUIDING.
IT&apos;S GOT SOME WINDOWS AND I
HAVE TO SAY THAT THIS IS ONE
OF THE MOST COMPLETE QAID
APPLICATIONS WE&apos;VE EVER SEEN.
IT&apos;S GREAT WE&apos;VE GOT A ROOF
PLAN HERE AND SOME SECTIONS AND
A COUPLE OF RENDERINGS SHOWING
WHAT IT WOULD LOOK LIKE WHERE
IT WOULD BE IN THE BACK OF THE
YARD.
VERY MODERN BUT SMALL.
I THINK IT&apos;S VERY COMPATIBLE
FROM THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS I&apos;VE ALREADY READ TO
AND NINE BOTH TO YOU SO FROM
THE SECRETARY&apos;S GUIDELINES A
BUILDING SITE IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED
TO RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS
,LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE TO DESIGN NEW EXTERIOR
ADDITIONS OR ADJACENT NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE PRESERVE
THE HISTORIC LANDSCAPE BETWEEN
THE BUILDINGS LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR NEW
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS.
LANDSCAPE FEATURES ENOUGH SPACE
TO LOCATE SHEDS AND GARAGES IN
THE REAR YARD AND TO USE
EXTERIOR WALLS AND ROOF
MATERIALS THAT ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH HISTORIC MATERIALS ON THE
MAIN STRUCTURE AND IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS IS REALLY A VERY SMALL
BUILDING.
IT&apos;S KIND OF UNIQUE TO MAKE IT
OUT OF BRICK BUT THAT IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE SHED
DESIGN AND SMALLNESS OF IT IS
VERY COMPATIBLE WITH A SAY
1920S GARAGE THAT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN PREVIOUSLY FOUND IN THIS
BACKYARD.
SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL.
IT IS INCONSPICUOUS AND LOCATED
APPROPRIATELY AND IT WILL NOT
DETRACT FROM THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MISS THATCHER COMMISSIONERS
QUIJANO AND FORTNER WERE ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S HEAR YOUR REPORT.
YEAH, NOTHING MUCH TO ADD.
IT REALLY WILL BE INCONSPICUOUS
GIVEN THAT THE GARAGE WALL IS
THERE NOW AND IT WILL BE UP
AGAINST THAT.
YOU KNOW, FROM THE STREET VIEW
I THINK PEOPLE WILL PROBABLY
NOT EVEN REALIZE SOMETHING HAS
BEEN ADDED THERE.
A VERY SMALL PROPORTION OF THE
TOTAL SITE.
YEAH, I AGREE WITH THAT ALREADY
AND IT IS QUITE A DEEP, DEEP
YARD PROPERTY SO YOU MIGHT NOT
EVEN CATCH IT IF YOU&apos;RE WALKING
ON THE SIDEWALK AND ALSO JUST
AT THAT CORNER WHERE THEY&apos;VE
LOCATED IT.
WE&apos;VE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT THE
BRICK THE NEIGHBOR&apos;S BRICK
GARAGE BEHIND IT AND THERE&apos;S
ONE OF THE OTHER ADJACENT
PROPERTIES.
THERE&apos;S ALSO A GARAGE
STRUCTURE.
SO IT&apos;S KIND OF APPROPRIATE
PLACEMENT AS WELL WITHIN THE
NEIGHBORING CONTEXT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE,
PLEASE COME TO THE PODIUM.
IF NOT OH, IT SOUNDS LIKE
THEY&apos;RE ON THERE AND ZOOM IS
THAT CORRECT ON YOUR MICROPHONE
PLEASE TURN ON YOUR VIDEO IF
YOU CAN.
&gt;&gt; HELLO.
SO YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES
TO SPEAK BUT IF THERE&apos;S
ANYTHING I&apos;D LIKE TO ADD TO THE
STAFF REPORT OR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT AND I WOULD BE
THE TIME TO DO THAT I HAVE
NOTHING TO ADD.
I FEEL AS THE OTHER APPLICANT
SAID BEFORE JILL DID A REALLY
GOOD JOB EXPLAINING EVERYTHING
SO JUST HOLD ON ONE MOMENT.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE NOT HEARING YOU.
&gt;&gt; HEY SUTTON, WE CAN I CAN
BARELY HEAR HER.
IT&apos;S JUST SOUNDS LIKE THE
VOLUME IS A LITTLE LOW.
OK, I&apos;M I&apos;M ON THE PHONE.
CAN YOU HEAR ME BETTER IF I GO
BOTH AGAIN WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE HEARING
SOME VOLUME BUT IT&apos;S WE&apos;RE
HAVING A TECHNICAL MOMENT THERE
WITH US FOR JUST A SECOND HERE.
JILL IS GOING TO TAKE A LOOK
AND SEE IF SHE CAN CRANK UP THE
VOLUME HERE.
OH, SHE&apos;S GOT A REMOTE CONTROL
.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, OK, BEAR WITH US JUST
ONE MOMENT.
OK IF YOU STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD, I
FORGOT TO ASK THAT OF YOU SO
LET&apos;S DO THAT AS A TEST.
&gt;&gt; CAN WE HEAR YOU OF COURSE
JESSICA FOR SIX TO EIGHT FIRST
GRADER.
YES MUCH BETTER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH SO PLEASE
CONTINUE WITH YOUR COMMENTS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP BUT
UNFORTUNATELY ALL OF NEVER
FORGET TO TELL YOU THAT I KNOW
MY PERFECT PERFECT THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S JUST FINE.
AND JOE AND I WE&apos;RE GOING TO
GET TO COME OUT OF IT AND GET
US SECURITY BACK SO THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO WE WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
ACTUALLY BEFORE WE DO THAT
COMMISSIONER HAS ANY QUESTIONS
FOR THE APPLICANT.
OK, THANK YOU.
I&apos;VE GOT A QUICK QUESTION.
OK, WE DO HAVE A QUESTION SO I
SEE THE DOOR SCHEDULE THAT THE
DOOR IS GOING TO BE ALUMINUM.
ARE THE WINDOWS ALSO GOING TO
BE ALUMINUM OR SOMETHING?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHETHER THAT&apos;S
ACTUALLY TRUE OR NOT.
I THINK THE ALUMINUM SLIDING
DOOR CRACKED.
&gt;&gt; GUESS THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M
ASKING.
YEAH, I DON&apos;T HAVE THE PLANS IN
FRONT OF ME BUT I BELIEVE THAT
THE WINDOWS I THINK THE ONLY
REASON THAT THE WORLD AND THE
NETWORK WOULD BE ABLE TO LOOK
AT IS WHAT MADE THE MOST SENSE
TO INSULATE THE SPACE BY THAT
WE MADE A DECISION ON THE
CONTRACT.
&gt;&gt; OK, IT DOES SAY THE EAST
ELEVATION THAT THOSE WINDOWS
WILL BE ANODIZED LIKE LIKE THE
SLIDING DOORS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THERE&apos;S A WINDOWS
SCHEDULE AS WELL IN THE WINDOWS
SCHEDULE IT SAYS IT DOESN&apos;T AND
IT&apos;S CLEAR ANODIZED GREAT
CONTRACT THAT&apos;S ALUMINUM.
YEAH THAT&apos;S SHINY LIKE BRIGHT
SHINY ALUMINUM.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH.
AND THEY&apos;RE GOING TO BE IN AN
ALUMINUM I CAN CONFIRM THAT WE
WILL BE DINING WITH NO THEY
NEVER HEARD ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; OK GOT IT.
&gt;&gt; SO A MATTE GRAY ALUMINUM.
YES THAT WOULD BE MY GUESS.
VERY GOOD.
OK COMMISSIONER ROSS IS THAT IS
THAT ALL YOUR QUESTIONS OR DO
YOU HAVE ANOTHER.
NOPE THAT&apos;S A QUESTION OK
ANYONE ELSE QUESTIONS OR SHOULD
WE MOVE TO LET&apos;S MOVE TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING OK SO WE&apos;LL OPEN
A PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
IT&apos;S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS
TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE APPLICATION
AT SIX TWENTY EIGHT S FIRST
WE&apos;VE SAID THE PHONE NUMBERS ON
THE AGENDA AS WELL AS THE
MEETING ID AND IF YOU&apos;RE ON THE
PHONE YOU SHOULD PRESS STAR
NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND NO ONE
IN THE WAITING ROOM OK AND NO
ONE HERE COMING TO THE PODIUM
SO WE WILL WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND I&apos;LL ASK A
COMMISSIONER IF SOMEONE WOULD
PLEASE MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
ITEM.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER FORD, I MOVE
THAT COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT SIX
TWENTY EIGHT S FIRST STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO CONSTRUCT A NEW ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE IN THE BACK YARD AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO INTEN AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE AS
WELL C ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES
PARTICULARLY
AS THEY PERTAIN TO
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES.
CICOTTE OK THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHITE.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
OK, I HAD A QUESTION FOR STAFF.
&gt;&gt; I WAS WONDERING WHAT I HOUSE
IS I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT OH AND I
HOUSE IS A HOUSE A LITTLE HOUSE
THAT&apos;S ONE AND A HALF OR TWO
STORIES.
WELL TWO STORIES ARE ONE AND
THREE QUARTERS THAT&apos;S BUILT
WITH THE GABLES ON THE SIDES
AND IT&apos;S NOT VERY DEEP.
SO THEY PUT THE CABLES ON THE
SIDES TO MAKE THE HOUSE LOOK
BIGGER.
SO IT&apos;S USUALLY JUST ONE ROOM
DEEP ORIGINAL WITH A STAIRCASE
IN THE CENTER.
SO YOU GO IN THE MIDDLE THERE&apos;D
BE A STAIRCASE GOING UP ROOM ON
EACH SIDE AND THEN UPSTAIRS
THERE&apos;S A ROOM ON EACH SIDE AND
THAT&apos;S IT.
THAT&apos;S THE WHOLE HOUSE AND IT&apos;S
NOT REALLY SHAPED LIKE AN EYE
BUT YEAH, IT&apos;S CONFUSING IN THE
MIDWEST.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
OH THERE&apos;S ANOTHER QUESTION FOR
STAFF IS THE EXISTING GARAGE
THERE IS THAT A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE?
&gt;&gt; I DIDN&apos;T RESEARCH THAT BUT
IT DOESN&apos;T LOOK LIKE IT.
OK, PRETTY BIG.
YES, PRETTY MODERN.
OK, I THINK THAT SORT OF ENTER
INTO THE THE DISCUSSION HERE
BUT UH OK AND THEN I ACTUALLY A
QUESTION FOR FOR YOU JESSICA.
CAN YOU COMMENT ON THE COLOR
OF THE BRICK?
HAVE YOU DECIDED IT LOOKED LIKE
THE RENDERING WAS GRAY?
&gt;&gt; IS THAT IS THAT YOUR
INTENTION OR DO YOU KNOW YET?
&gt;&gt; I THINK SO.
THAT&apos;S OUR INTENTION IS TO
WRITE THAT VERY CERTAINLY AND I
I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S KIND
OF STICKING WITH THAT MITCHELL
OR OUR INTENT.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
OK, ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS?
&gt;&gt; IF NOT, WE&apos;RE GOING TO GO TO
A VOTE SO LET&apos;S VOTE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THIS MOTION.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT ALL THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH JESSICA AND
I RIGHT.
OK OK MOVING ON THIS WILL BE
HEARING F THREE.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO STAY ON FIRST
STREET FORUM FOR S FIRST MISS
THATCHER.
WE&apos;RE READY FOR THE REPORT WHEN
YOU ARE
YOU DO A LITTLE
CLAPPING HERE OK OR FOR S FIRST
STREET IS ALSO THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS IS A TWO STORY HOME THAT
WAS BUILT IN 1916 AND FIRST
OCCUPIED IN 1917 BY CARL SANZA,
A MECHANICAL ENGINEER AND
PRINTER.
RICHARD HAWTHORNE AND THE
NINETEEN SIXTEEN AND NINETEEN
TWENTY FIVE SANDBORN MAPS THE
HOUSE FACES WEST WILLIAM AND
HAS A FOUR WITH FRONT PORCH ON
THE NORTH ELEVATION AND THE
STREET ADDRESS IS THREE OR ONE
WEST WILLIAM THIS WAS ALL VERY
INTERESTING TO LEARN WHEN WE
WERE RESEARCHING THIS HOUSE AT
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE THE FRONT
DOOR IN PORCH HAD BEEN MOVED TO
THE CURRENT CONFIGURATION ON
THE EAST ELEVATION THE BAY
WINDOW IN THE NORTH ELEVATION
WAS MOST LIKELY ADDED THEN TO
REPLACE THE FORMER FRONT DOOR
THE HOUSE IS QUIET AND THREE
INCH LAP SIDING WITH LEFT
SIDING ON THE GROUND FLOOR AND
CEDAR SHAKES ON THE UPPER
FLOORS.
IT HAS EXPOSED AFTER TILES AND
AROUND ATTIC WINDOW IN EACH
OF THE THREE GABLES ON THE
NINETEEN SIXTEEN THROUGH
NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN
MAPS FIVE HOUSES ARE SHOWN ON
ONE LOT INCLUDING THIS ONE TO
ON FIRST STREET AND TWO ON
WILLIAM.
ALL OF THE HOUSES WERE BUILT IN
NINETEEN SIXTEEN AND OCCUPIED
IN SEVENTEEN OR EIGHTEEN TO OUR
DUTCH AMBROSE AND THE OTHER
THREE WERE GABLE FRONTIERS SO
THE PROPERTY IN THIS
APPLICATION WAS ALTERED AS
DESCRIBED THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING APPROVAL TO ADD A SMALL
ADDITION TO THE SOUTHWEST
CORNER OF THE HOUSE TO ADD A
SECOND STORY OF A ONE CAR FRAME
GARAGE TO REMOVE THE CHIMNEY
AND TO INSTALL A NEW CONCRETE
PARKING PAD.
ALL RIGHT.
GOING THROUGH THE SLIDE I&apos;M
REALLY SORT OF BAFFLED ABOUT
WHY THEY MOVED THE PORCH AROUND
TO THE OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE
.
IT WOULD BE VERY INTERESTING TO
KNOW WHAT THE ORIGINAL LAYOUT
OF THE FLOOR PLAN WAS.
BUT HERE IS THE FRONT CORNER
OF THE HOUSE.
IT HAS THREE OR FOUR BEDROOMS
IN THE BASEMENT AND THAT&apos;S WHY
THERE ARE EGRESS WINDOWS ON
BOTH THE SIDE AND THE WEST
WILLIAMS SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THOSE PREDATE THE MODERN
HISTORIC PRESERVATION ORDINANCE
WHERE THEY PROBABLY WOULDN&apos;T BE
ALLOWED IN THE FRONT YARD MOST
LIKELY BUT THEY&apos;RE PRETTY
INCONSPICUOUS.
THE HOUSE YOU CAN SEE US FOR
PANED WINDOWS AT FOUR OVER ONE
AND FOUR OVER AND JUST FOUR
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF GLASS ON THE
ON THE WINDOWS ON THE FRONT
PORCH THERE.
THIS IS THE NEIGHBORS DRIVER
GOING BACK.
IT APPEARS TO BE SHARED.
THERE IS A PARKING SPOT BACK
HERE SORT OF LET&apos;S SEE LET&apos;S
GET A PICTURE OR YOU CAN PULL
IN AND GET MOSTLY OUT OF THE
WAY.
YOU CAN SEE THE TRASH CANS AND
RECYCLING CANS ARE KEPT THERE
NOW THIS IS THE BACK WALL
OF THE ATTACHED GARAGE AND THIS
FENCE RUNS DOWN THE LINE.
THIS THIS LOT IS ZONED
COMMERCIAL AS ARE SEVERAL OTHER
ON THIS CORNER BECAUSE THAT
THERE IS THERE&apos;S NO SET BACK
REQUIREMENT ON THE LOT LINES.
SO YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO HAVE ANY
SPACE THERE.
YOU CAN BUILD RIGHT UP TO THE
TO THE TO THE FLAT LINE.
YOU PROBABLY HAVE TO DO SPECIAL
THINGS TO MAKE THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT HAPPY ABOUT
FIREPROOFING WALLS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
BUT IT IS POSSIBLE TO NOT HAVE
SETBACKS PER ZONING NOW AROUND
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE YOU CAN
SEE I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT
OVER HERE THERE&apos;S I CAN&apos;T QUITE
SEE IT BECAUSE I HAVE PEOPLE&apos;S
HEADS IN THE WAY BUT THERE&apos;S A
WINDOW RIGHT AROUND HERE
SOMEWHERE AND THEN THERE&apos;S A
WINDOW ON THE SECOND FLOOR AND
THERE&apos;S A SMALL SINGLE PANE
WINDOW SINGLE WINDOW OVER HERE.
I&apos;M JUST POINTING THOSE OUT.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THEY ARE
HERE.
THE GARAGE THE GARAGE IS THE
MILLION DOLLAR QUESTION RIGHT
NOW IT DOES NOT APPEAR ON THE
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE SANDBORN
MAP WHICH I&apos;LL SHOW YOU IN A
SEC.
IT DOES APPEAR ON THE NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN MAP AND
WE&apos;RE NOT SURE IF IT&apos;S ON THE
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN CITY AREA
IT&apos;S I THINK THAT IT&apos;S THERE
BUT I CAN&apos;T SAY THAT WITH 100
PERCENT CERTAINTY BECAUSE IT&apos;S
NOT CRYSTAL CLEAR THE CERTAINLY
THE MACING AND THE STYLE WITH
THE LOW ROOF AND THIS LITTLE
FRONT PARAPET ARE IN KEEPING
WITH GARAGES BUILT DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE THE
OVERHEAD DOOR COULD HAVE BEEN
INSTALLED IN THE 30S OR 40S.
THEY WERE MAKING THEM LIKE THAT
BY THEN IT IS WOULD BUT IT ALSO
COULD HAVE BEEN INSTALLED LATER
BECAUSE THEY NEED THIS FOR A
LONG TIME.
THEY STILL MAKE THEM.
HERE&apos;S THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
THIS HOUSE AND THE NEIGHBORING
HOUSE.
IT&apos;S FROM THE GARAGE TO THE BAY
WINDOW THAT YOU CAN&apos;T QUITE SEE
HERE IS ABOUT LITTLE LESS THAN
EIGHT FEET AND THE CHIMNEY IS
SUPPOSED TO BE REMOVED IN ORDER
TO FREE UP ROOM INSIDE IN ORDER
TO MAKE SOME REMODELING OF THE
INTERIOR WORK.
IT&apos;S A STRAIGHTFORWARD CHIMNEY.
IT&apos;S SMALLISH, IT&apos;S USED FOR
VENTING.
IT WASN&apos;T USED FOR LIKE A WOOD
FIREPLACE OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
IT IS LIKELY ORIGINAL TO THE
HOUSE THOUGH, BUT I&apos;M NOT SURE
I WOULD CALL IT A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE THOUGH I MIGHT
USE THE THIRTY ONE SANDBORN
FIRE INSURANCE MAP ON THE LEFT.
HERE&apos;S THE HOUSE LOOKING AT THE
PORCH HAS ALREADY BEEN FLIPPED.
I THINK THAT THERE&apos;S A NINETEEN
TWENTY FIVE SANDBORN IN WITH
THE APPLICATION IF YOU WANT TO
SEE WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE WITH A
PORCH THIS IS WILLIAM THIS JUST
MEANS THIS IS THE OPEN FRONT
PORCH AND A LITTLE SIDE PORCH
HERE IN NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT
SANBERG FIRE INSURANCE THE
AUTOMOBILE GARAGE SIGNIFIED BY
A IS ATTACHED HERE AND IT IS
ONE STOREY THERE WAS A LOT
GOING ON ON THIS LOT EVERYBODY
ELSE HAD JUST BOUGHT THIS HOUSE
DID NOT UNTIL WE HIT THE
NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN
SO SOMETIME BETWEEN THIRTY ONE
AND FORTY EIGHT TO HEAR THE
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS THAT I WAS
TALKING ABOUT THIS ONE ON THE
RIGHT IS THE TWENTY TWENTY YOU
CAN SEE THE WHITE LINE OF THE
PARAPET.
THIS IS HOW A LOT OF PARAPETS
THAT HAVE LIKE A METAL POPPING
OVER THE TOP SHOW UP ON THESE
AERIAL PHOTOS THEY LOOK PRETTY
LIGHT AND REFLECTIVE AND IN
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN
UNFORTUNATELY I COULD NOT TURN
THESE LOT LINES OFF.
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE&apos;S A WHITE
LINE GOING DOWN THERE.
THIS IS A YOU CAN SEE THAT THIS
LINE HERE IS A BREAK BETWEEN
TWO AREAS MAKING IT EVEN MORE
DIFFICULT.
SO I JUST AND BACK HERE THERE&apos;S
SOME SORT OF A GABLE ROOF TO
SHED.
YOU CAN SEE HOW THE LIGHT IS
SITTING SITTING ON THE SIDE AND
IT&apos;S IN SHADOW ON THE OTHER
SIDE BECAUSE THERE&apos;S ONLY A
COUPLE OF YEARS HERE BETWEEN
THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE AND
ARE CONCLUSIVE.
NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT EVIDENCE
THAT THE GARAGE WAS THERE THEN
AND BECAUSE THE GARAGE IS
SIMILAR IN DESIGN TO OTHER
ATTACHED GARAGES THERE AREN&apos;T A
LOT OF ATTACH GARAGES AROUND
THE OLD WEST SIDE BUT THERE ARE
A FEW IN FACT AS ONE OF THE
NEIGHBORS HOUSE HERE BUT THIS
ONE WAS PUT PUTTING BEFORE
THIRTY ONE IT&apos;S BACK FURTHER I
I WILL AIR ON THE SIDE OF THE
THAT THE THE THE GARAGE DOES
HAVE A HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE.
I DO BELIEVE IT WAS FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE
IT MATCHES THE CHARACTERISTICS
SO CLOSELY TO OTHER ONES AROUND
AND JUST THE DESIGN AND STYLE
OF MASSING OF GARAGES OF THAT
ERA.
NOW LET&apos;S GET INTO THE PROPOSAL
HERE.
HERE&apos;S THE SITE PLAN.
THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY COMING OFF
OF WEST WILLIAM.
THE GARAGE STARTS HERE AND YOU
CAN SEE THE SHADED AREA IS THE
SECOND STORY ED. THAT&apos;S
PROPOSED THE THERE&apos;S A SMALLER
FIRST STORY EDITION
BACK HERE
IN THE CORNER.
THIS ONE IS INSET ON BOTH THE
CORNERS OF THE HOUSE AND THE
GARAGE FAIRLY SIGNIFICANTLY
WHICH I DO APPRECIATE THAT A
LOT OF CARE WAS TAKEN TO MAKE
THAT HAPPEN.
THIS IS TO HOUSE AN ADA
ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM.
THE HOUSE IS NOW BEING USED
MAINLY FOR OFFICE USE.
I BELIEVE THERE MAY STILL BE A
RESIDENCE MAINTAINED IN IT LIKE
AN APARTMENT BUT THE THE MAIN
FLOOR AND THE UPPER FLOOR ARE
MOSTLY OFFICE SPACE PROPOSED TO
BE YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE&apos;S
THAT I ADDED NEW CONCRETE
PARKING PAD TO THE TO THE
DESCRIPTION AND THE MOTION JUST
FOR CLARITY SO WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO
DEAL WITH WHEN SOMEBODY COMES
IN AND SAYS OH THEY DIDN&apos;T GET
THEIR PARKING HAD APPROVED BUT
IT&apos;S JUST A SLIGHT EXPANSION
OF THE EXISTING CONCRETE WHAT
YOU CAN USED TO GO RIGHT HERE
JUST TO GIVE THEM A WAY TO PULL
OFF THERE WITH A CAR.
NOTICE HERE THAT THE PROPERTY
LINE DOES LOOK LIKE IT GOES
RIGHT DOWN THE MIDDLE OF THE
DRIVEWAY, WHICH IS WHY BOTH
PARTIES ARE USING IT.
SO THEY REALLY HAVE ONE AND A
HALF DRIVEWAY WHICH IS KIND
OF INTERESTING.
SHE ALSO KNOWS THAT NEW CITY
REGULATIONS MEAN THAT THERE IS
NO REQUIRED PARKING.
&gt;&gt; SO THEY THAT WAS AN ISSUE
WITH THIS BUILDING EARLIER.
IT IS NO LONGER AN ISSUE
BECAUSE THEY COULD HAVE ZERO
PARKING AND IT WOULD BE OK.
SO I WENT TO FIND PROPOSED
FIRST FLOOR HERE WE HAVE THE
EIGHTY RESTROOM YOU ACCESS TO
SIT THROUGH THE KITCHEN ON THE
BACK CORNER OF THE HOUSE
.
SO WHAT I DO WANT TO POINT OUT
IS ONLY THREE THOUSAND THREE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY EIGHT SQUARE
FEET MAKING IT ON THE VERY MUCH
THE SMALLER SIDE OF WHAT&apos;S IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR DOESN&apos;T
REALLY MATTER BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
YOUR FLAT LINES IF THEY CAN FIT
EVERYTHING IN, IT&apos;S JUST THAT
IT&apos;S WHEN THEY WHEN THEY BUILD
FIVE HOUSES ON ONE LIKE THIS
THEY ALWAYS GET SCREWED UP WHEN
THEY DIVIDE THEM UP LATER AND
MAKE LOTS AND THEY NEVER MEET
THE SETBACK REQUIREMENTS AND
BLAH BLAH BLAH.
SO THE COMMERCIAL ZONING IS
ACTUALLY VERY HELPFUL IN THIS
CASE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED SECOND
FLOOR PLAN.
YOU CAN SEE THIS ROOM HERE.
IT&apos;S THE ONE OR SEVEN INCHES BY
NINE FEET SEVEN AND THREE
QUARTERS HAS A WINDOW FACING
THE FRONT WINDOWS FACING THE
BACK OVER THE NEW ROOF FOR THE
THE ACCESSIBLE BATHROOM ROOF
PLAN.
THIS IS THE PORCH ROOF AND
THERE IS A WALL DORMER ABOVE
THAT WITH A GABLE AND THIS NEW
ROOF IS PROPOSED TO ALSO BE A
GABLE THAT&apos;S INSET AND IT
MATCHES THE PITCH OF THE OTHER
ROOF SLOPES THE HOUSE.
THIS IS A THIS IS A LOWER SHED
ON THE BACK OF TO IN JUST A
SECOND WE&apos;LL GET TO IT IN JUST
A SECOND FROM THE FRONT THERE&apos;S
THIS IS THE EXISTING EXTERIOR
ELEVATION.
THERE&apos;S REALLY NOT ANYTHING
BEING CHANGED.
SO I DIDN&apos;T INCLUDE THE
PROPOSED AS A COMPARISON.
THIS IS THE EXISTING SELF
ELEVATION ON THE LEFT AND THE
PROPOSED ON THE RIGHT.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IS WHERE WE
WENT DOWN THE DRIVEWAY BETWEEN
THEM IN THE NEIGHBOR AND LOOKED
AT THE TRASHCANS.
THIS IS THIS IS THAT VIEW
OF THE GARAGE AND HERE&apos;S THE
NEW ADDITIONS PROPOSED WITH A
SLOPING ROOF, A SHED ROOF AND
THE SECOND STORY ADDITION
BEYOND IT YOU CAN SEE WHERE
THAT GABLE IS INSIDE INTO A
ROOF THAT&apos;S AT AN APPROPRIATE
HEIGHT AND EVERYTHING.
NOW MOVED ON TO THE WEST
ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE SIDE OF THE GARAGE
FACING WILLIAM STREET NEIGHBOR
THERE IS THIS IS THE NEW SECOND
STORY ADDITION THE NEW FIRST
FLOOR EDITION AND YOU CAN SEE
THAT BECAUSE THE GARAGE SLOPES
BACKWARDS THEY&apos;VE HAD TO MODIFY
THE PITCH ON THE FRONT HERE SO
IT WOULD NO LONGER HAVE THAT
LITTLE PARAPET LOOK.
BUT THE NEW EDITION IS SET BACK
SEVERAL FEET THERE IN ORDER TO
DISTINGUISH IT FROM THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE AND THE GARAGE
THERE EXISTING NORTH EXTERIOR
ELEVATION.
WHAT YOU NOTICE HERE IS THE
SECOND FLOOR ADDITION.
I DO HAVE SOME CONCERNS ABOUT
THIS ADDITION MATCHING REALLY
CLOSELY TO THE REST OF THE
HOUSE HAS THE EXPOSED RAFTER
TAILS IT HAS MATCHING SHINGLE
OR SIDING QAISSI IN CEDAR THE
WINDOWS ARE ALUMINUM CLAD WHICH
HELPS A LITTLE BIT.
BUT I THINK THAT IF THE
COMMISSION WERE TO CONSIDER
THIS FOR APPROVAL WE MIGHT A
FEW TWEAKS TO TO JUST
DISTINGUISH THIS A LITTLE
BETTER FROM THE WAY THAT IT&apos;S
DRAWN.
BUT THAT&apos;S EASY ENOUGH TO DO.
THERE&apos;S A SECTION SHOWING THE
EXISTING GARAGE AND BOTH OF THE
ADDITIONS YOU CAN SEE THAT
THEY&apos;RE WORKING ON SEVERAL
DIFFERENT LEVELS HERE.
THIS COMES OFF OF THE KITCHEN,
THE BATHROOM, BUT IT&apos;S
SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER THAN THE
EXISTING GARAGE.
THE BATHROOM IS ON A NEW
BASEMENT WHICH WOULD TIE INTO
THE EXISTING BASEMENT WHICH IS
WHICH IS KIND OF INTERESTING I
THINK I HAVE READ TO STANDARDS
CENTER TWO STANDARD FIVE SO
THAT DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS
FEATURES FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
I&apos;VE READ TO YOU NUMBER NINE.
NUMBER TEN SAYS NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS IT&apos;S
RECOMMENDED PLACE FUNCTIONS AND
SERVICES REQUIRED FOR THE NEW
USE AND NON CHARACTER DEFINING
INTERIOR SPACES RATHER THAN
INSTALLING NEW ADDITIONS.
IT&apos;S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
CONSTRUCT A NEW ADDITIONS THAT
THERE&apos;S THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS.
CHARACTER DESIGN FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR ADDITIONS IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED
TO LOCATE THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
EDITION AT THE REAR OR AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE HISTORIC
BUILDING LIMITING THE SIZE AND
SCALE IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDING AND DESIGNING
THEM IN A MANNER THAT MAKES
CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC AND WHAT
NEW.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO CONSIDER
THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR DESIGN IN
TERMS OF THE NEW USE AND THE
APPEARANCE OF OTHER BUILDINGS
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
DESIGN MAY BE CONTEMPORARY OR
REFERENCE DESIGN MOTIFS FROM
THE HISTORIC BUILDING IT&apos;S
RECOMMENDED DESIGN ADDITIONAL
STORIES WHEN REQUIRED FOR THE
NEW USE THAT ARE SET BACK FROM
THE WALL AND ARE AS
INCONSPICUOUS AS POSSIBLE WHEN
VIEWED FROM THE STREET, IT IS
NOT RECOMMENDED TO EXPAND THE
SIZE OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING
BY CONSTRUCTING A NEW ADDITION
WHEN THE NEW YEAR COULD BE MET
BY ALTERING NONCOMMUTATIVE
INTERIOR SPACE.
IT&apos;S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN A NEW ADDITION TO THE
SIZE AND SCALE ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION, THUS DIMINISHING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OR
DUPLICATING THE EXACT FORM
MATERIAL STYLE DETAILING OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING AND THE NEW
ADDITION TO THE NEW WORK
APPEARS TO BE PART OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING NOT
RECOMMENDED AS INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION THAT&apos;S VISUALLY
INCOMPLETE OR THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE SETTING FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
CONSTRUCT AN ADDITION THAT
SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGES THE
PROPORTION OF BUILT MASTER TO
OPEN SPACE ON THE INDIVIDUAL
SITE.
IT&apos;S ALSO NOT APPROPRIATE TO
DESIGN AN ADDITION THAT
OVERPOWERS OR DRAMATICALLY
ALTERS THE ORIGINAL BUILDING
THROUGH SIZE OR HEIGHT FOR
ROOFS.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN ORIGINAL HISTORIC
ROOFING MATERIALS ROOF SHAPE
DORMERS, COUPON&apos;S CHIMNEYS AND
BUILT INTO DECORATIVE GUTTERS
AND DOWNSPOUTS.
IT IS NOT APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE
OR ALTER HISTORIC FEATURES SUCH
AS CHIMNEYS.
OK, LET ME GO BACK UP OF ALL
RIGHT.
I SEE WHAT STAFF COMMENTS I
HAVE FOR YOU THAT I HAVEN&apos;T
ALREADY GIVEN YOU.
I ORIGINALLY DIVIDED THIS INTO
TWO MOTIONS SO THAT YOU COULD
THINK ABOUT THE TWO DIFFERENT
EDITIONS SEPARATELY BUT THIS
THE THE FIRST EDITION IS TIED
INTO THE SECOND FLOOR EDITION
IN SUCH A WAY THAT YOU REALLY
CAN&apos;T MAKE EITHER ONE OF THEM
STAND ALONE LIKE THAT.
SO SHOW YOU WHAT I&apos;M TALKING
ABOUT HERE.
SO THIS IS ONE EDITION AND THIS
IS THE OTHER EDITION AND THEY
REALLY TIE INTO EACH OTHER HERE
.
&gt;&gt; SO EVERYTHING IS IN ONE
EDITION AT THIS POINT I REALLY
HAVE NO QUALMS WITH THE SITE
AND LOCATION OF THE RESTROOM
EDITION.
I THINK IT&apos;S GREAT THAT THEY
WERE ABLE TO TUCK IT INTO THE
BACK CORNER.
IT&apos;S VERY INCONSPICUOUS.
YOU&apos;LL NEVER SEE IT EXCEPT FROM
THE NEIGHBORS YARD, THE GARAGE
EDITION.
I DO HAVE SOME CONCERNS ABOUT
BECAUSE I DO BELIEVE THAT THIS
IS A CHARACTER AN
ARCHITECTURALLY SIGNIFICANT
CONTRIBUTING GARAGE BECAUSE I
DO BELIEVE IT WAS BUILT DURING
THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE AND
AS SUCH I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THAT IT
IS APPROPRIATE TO PUT A SECOND
STORY ON IT IF THE COMMISSION
WERE TO DECIDE OTHERWISE THAT
IT&apos;S NOT A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE THEN I THINK THAT THE
ADDITION OF TOP MAY BE
APPROPRIATE WITH SOME TWEAKS TO
THE DESIGN TO MAKE IT A LITTLE
MORE DISTINGUISHED FROM THE
HISTORIC PARTS OF THE HOUSE.
BUT I REALLY THINK THAT THIS
ONE COMES DOWN TO WHETHER OR
NOT THAT GARAGE IS A
CONTRIBUTING PORTION OF THE
HOUSE.
THE CHIMNEY.
THAT&apos;S ANOTHER ONE WHERE THE
COMMISSION WILL JUST NEED TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THE CHIMNEY
IS A CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
OF THE HOUSE.
IF NOT, IT CAN BE REMOVED IF IT
IS, IT SHOULD OR SHOULD NOT BE
REMOVED.
SO STAFF DOES BELIEVE THAT THE
PROPOSED ADDITION
OF A SECOND
STORY ON THE GARAGE IS NOT
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND DOES NOT MEET THE
SECRETARY INTERIOR STANDARDS OR
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES THAT
CONCLUDES STAFF REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
SO LET&apos;S HEAR FROM THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE ITS COMMISSIONER
QUIJANO FORNER SO DID A GREAT
JOB WALKING US THROUGH.
THAT WOULD BE A VERY THOROUGH
AND THOROUGH APPLICATION TO
BEGIN WITH.
SO YES, THAT LET&apos;S SEE ON THE
SOUTH I I&apos;LL START THERE S
ELEVATION ALONG DRIVE DRIVEWAY
OFF FIRST IT&apos;S VERY CLOSE TO
THE ADJACENT PROPERTY SO HOW
CAN YOU NOT HEAR ME ON THE THE
FIRST STREET DRIVEWAY SIDE VERY
CLOSE TO THE ADJACENT PROPERTY
SO I DON&apos;T THINK THE ADDITIONS
WILL BE VERY CONSPICUOUS THERE
.
YOU KNOW TUCKED IN THERE&apos;S A
LOT OF VEGETATION AND IT&apos;S AS
YOU POINT OUT IT&apos;S STEP BACK
FROM THAT THE MAIN SIDE WALL
QUITE A BIT.
SO I THINK THAT I&apos;VE NO ISSUES
THERE.
THE CHIMNEY IS QUITE PLAIN AND
SMALL COMPARED TO THE REST
OF THE PROPERTY AND I WOULDN&apos;T
CALL IT A CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURE.
&gt;&gt; NO NO CONCERNS ON MY PART
THERE.
IT&apos;S REALLY YEAH.
THE QUESTION OF THE GARAGE
WHETHER IT&apos;S CONTRIBUTING OR
NOT AND I&apos;D LIKE TO MAYBE WE
CAN HAVE A DISCUSSION ABOUT AND
I AM A BIT CONCERNED ABOUT THE
SCALE OF THE ADDITIONS ON TOP
OF THE GARAGE.
I WAS WALKING UP AND DOWN
WILLIAM LOOKING AT THE ADJACENT
PROPERTIES AND THERE&apos;S A VERY
CLEAR VOID BETWEEN EACH OF THE
HOMES THERE AND THAT I READ
THIS EDITION OF A VERY SOLID
WALL BETWEEN BEING INTRODUCED
SO RECONCILING THAT THANK YOU.
YEAH, I WOULD AGREE THE CHIMNEY
IS PRETTY INCONSPICUOUS AND NOT
A CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
THAT THE FIRST FLOOR EDITION IS
AS GOOD AS IT COULD BE.
BUT YEAH.
IS THE GARAGE CONTRIBUTING?
&gt;&gt; THAT IS THE QUESTION.
OK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE HAVE THE OPTION
HERE.
GREAT.
IF YOU COULD COME UP TO THE
PODIUM PLEASE ON YOUR
MICROPHONE AS A JOKE YOU&apos;VE
FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK AND LET
US KNOW IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD
ANYTHING TO THE STAFF REPORT OR
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT AND
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, MY NAME IS TERESA ANTOLINI.
I&apos;M AN ARCHITECT WORKING WITH
CHUCK OLBRYCHT ON THIS PROJECT
AND I MY ADDRESS IS THIRTEEN
FIFTEEN BEACHWOOD AND ANN ARBOR
SO I DID SEND A PDF OF THE
POWERPOINT TO JILL SINCE THERE
WERE SOME QUESTIONS THAT AROSE
WHEN WE MET ON SITE WITH MONDAY
.
SO I THOUGHT IT WOULD HELP TO
DESCRIBE A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
SITE.
SO ONCE THAT IS UP ON THE
MONITOR AND THANK YOU VERY MUCH
JILL THROUGH PRESENTATION SO
JUST WANT TO CLARIFY A FEW
THINGS ABOUT THE SITE BECAUSE
IT IS UNUSUAL AND VERY SMALL.
SO ON THE NEXT SLIDE I JUST
LOOK AT THE ZONING THE RED
CIRCLE IS DRAWN AROUND FOR FOR
S SO YOU CAN SEE THAT ALL THE
PINK C TO BE COMMERCIAL ZONING
IS IN THE ROW THERE AT THE
CORNER FROM WILLIAM DOWN FIRST
.
THERE&apos;S ALSO OFFERS FURTHER
WEST ACROSS THE STREET IS THE D
TWO.
THERE&apos;S THE EMPTY PARKING LOT,
THERE&apos;S SOME SHEDS ON IT.
THERE&apos;S A RAILROAD TRACKS WHICH
MAKE IT VERY HARD TO SLEEP AT
NIGHT WHEN PEOPLE HAVE STAYED
THERE AND IT&apos;S DIFFERENT THEN
ALTHOUGH THE THE STRUCTURES MAY
LOOK LIKE THEY&apos;RE VERY SIMILAR
TO OTHERS ON THE OLD SIDE IT IS
NOT THE TYPICAL OUR FOR HOUSES
THAT YOU SEE THROUGH THE REST
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND EVEN
THE UNIQUENESS OF THEY&apos;RE ALL
SQUEEZED TOGETHER THE FIVE
OF THOSE ON THAT ORIGINAL
PROPERTY.
SO JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT
THIS IS ON THE FRINGE OF THE
OLD WEST SIDE AND THE ZONING
COMMERCIAL AND NOT RESIDENTIAL
AND IT&apos;S JUST NOT IT DOESN&apos;T
FIT THE STANDARD STEREOTYPE I
THINK OF WHAT YOU THINK OF WHAT
THE OLD WEST SIDE ON THE NEXT
SIDE.
JUST ALSO TO CLARIFY THE ZONING
SETBACKS AT SOME POINT WE GOT A
SURVEY BECAUSE IT WAS JUST KIND
OF PUZZLING TO FIGURE OUT LIKE
HOW CLOSE IS THAT GARAGE TO THE
PROPERTY LINE?
AND IT TURNS OUT YES, IT IS A
PROPERTY LINE SO THE EDGE
OF THE GARAGE, THE SPACE IS
EXACTLY ON THE PROPERTY LINE
AND THE RED DASH LINE THERE
SHOWS IT, YOU KNOW, PROPERTY
THE ZONING ALLOWS IT TO BE
BUILT UP TO THE WEST EDGE AND
TO THE SOUTH EDGE AND THEN
THERE&apos;S A TEN FOOT SET BACK ON
THE EAST AND THE NORTH.
THE SITE PLAN DOESN&apos;T SHOW
COMPLETELY THAT THERE ARE TWO
EGRESS WINDOWS ON THE NORTH
SIDE TO CROSS WINDOWS ON THE
SOUTH SIDE.
OBVIOUSLY THE PORCH IS ON THE
EAST SIDE SO THERE&apos;S NOT MUCH
OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND THIS VERY
SMALL FOOTPRINT THAT&apos;S JUST
AROUND SIX HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE
FEET TO THE ADA RESTROOM AREA
AS SHOWN IN PINK AND THEN THE
OFFICE MEZZANINE ON TOP OF THE
GARAGE THERE IS JUST ONE IN THE
PURPLE MAROON COLOR.
OK, ON THE NEXT SLIDE I THINK
JOE&apos;S COVERED A LOT OF THE
HISTORY OF THE USE BUT WE
THOUGHT IT WAS PRETTY
FASCINATING TO TO FIND OUT THAT
THAT FRONT ENTRY WAS CHANGED
FROM WEST WILLIAM TO S FIRST
AND JUST IN TERMS OF THE
HISTORY OF THE USE THE PREVIOUS
OWNERS AT SOME POINT MOVED OUT
AND THEN IT WAS USED AS A
RENTAL FOR STUDENT USE FROM
TWENTY FIVE TO TWENTY TWENTY
ONE.
SO REALLY FOR THE LAST FIFTEEN
YEARS IT&apos;S BEEN STUDENT RENTAL
IT WAS PURCHASED AND TWENTY
TWENTY ONE FOR USE AS ITS
ENGINEERING OFFICE AND THE
BUSINESS HAS REMOTE WORKERS
NATIONWIDE.
SO THE GOAL IS THAT ANN ARBOR
IS A GREAT PLACE DOWNTOWN
THAT&apos;S RIGHT ON THE EDGE OF THE
DOWNTOWN THEY CAN COME HERE FOR
MEETINGS.
THERE ARE BEDROOMS THAT THEY
COULD STAY OVER SO YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S WHAT SUPPORTS THEIR
BUSINESS AND IT REALLY FITS
VERY NICELY AND IT&apos;S KIND OF A
TRICKY SITE OF YOU KNOW, IN THE
LONG RUN LIKE WHO LIVES ACROSS
FROM THE RAILROAD TRACK AND
JUST THIS IS A SMALL BUILDING
SO HOW IT CAN BE USED
COMMERCIALLY OR RESIDENTIALLY
AND I THINK WHEN YOU LOOKED AT
THE FIRST AT THE FLOOR PLANS
AND JOE&apos;S PRESENTATION, YOU
COULD SAY THAT IS IS PRETTY
TYPICAL OF A HOUSE THAT HAS
LIKE THE LIVING ROOM SORT OF ON
THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE WHERE THE
BAY WINDOW IS THE CENTER
ENTRIES IN THE FRONT AND THEN
THERE&apos;S KIND OF A SMALL DINING
ROOM AND A SMALL KITCHEN IN THE
BACK.
THERE&apos;S NO RESTROOM ON THE
FIRST FLOOR.
THERE&apos;S NO I DON&apos;T I I DON&apos;T
SEE HOW ONE CAN BE SQUEEZED IN
VERY EASILY.
THE ONE ON THE SECOND FLOOR IS
AN OLDER ONE THAT DOESN&apos;T LOOK
LIKE THERE&apos;S A TUB THERE THAT
DOESN&apos;T HAVE THOSE AROUND ON
THE SIDES OF IT IN THE BASEMENT
THE CEILING HEIGHT IS VERY LOW
DOWN THERE AND THAT BATHROOM IS
REALLY PRETTY COMPROMISED.
IT&apos;S LIKE SIX FEET ONE IN TERMS
OF THE CEILING UNDER THE
DUCTWORK.
SO IN TERMS OF NEEDING A
RESTROOM NEEDS A RESTROOM ON
THE FIRST FLOOR IDEALLY AND
EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE STEPS TO
GET UP THERE WITH COMMERCIAL
ZONING OR COMMERCIAL, WE WOULD
WANT TO DO IT AS AN ADA
RESTROOM.
SO ON THE NEXT SLIDE THERE&apos;S
SOME STATISTICS SO JUST IN
TERMS OF THE FINISHED FLOOR
LEVELS, YOU KNOW THIS WAS ALSO
IT KIND OF ILLUSTRATED IN THE
SECTION THAT JOE SHOWED WITH
THE DIFFERENT HEIGHTS BETWEEN
THE GARAGE AND THE FIRST FLOOR
AND THEN WHEN WE DISCOVERED WE
COULD DO THIS ADDITION, THERE
WAS THE OPPORTUNITY WITH THE
MEZZANINE HEIGHT TO BE ON TOP
OF THE GARAGE AND THAT COULD BE
A SPACE THAT COULD STILL BE
PERCEIVED AS OFFICE USE.
IT WASN&apos;T REALLY SECOND FLOOR
BEDROOM SO IT WAS KIND OF AN
INTERMEDIATE SORT OF USE FOR
THAT.
SO THAT SEEMED LIKE IT REALLY
SUITED THE USE FOR THIS
PARTICULAR PROPERTY.
CEILING JUST TO CLARIFY TO NOTE
ON THE BASEMENT THERE ARE THREE
BEDROOMS DOWN THERE ABOUT THE
CEILINGS ARE PRETTY LOW IN SOME
AREAS AND SO IT KIND OF VARIES
BETWEEN SIX ONE AND A HALF AND
SIX FEET TEN AND A HALF.
OTHERWISE THE FIRST FLOOR IS
PRETTY NORMAL AT EIGHT THREE
AND THE SECOND FLOOR IS JUST
RIGHT AROUND EIGHT FEET.
AND JUST IN IN TERMS OF HOW TO
ADD TO THIS PROPERTY, THE
GARAGE IS SLOPING DOWN IN TERMS
THE ROOF TOWARDS THE SOUTH
SIDE.
SO ANYTHING THAT IDEAL AREA
WHERE WE&apos;VE GOT THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ADD A RESTROOM WOULD RESULT
IN THE GARAGE SLOPING INTO AND
WITH THE CEILING HEIGHT YOU
KNOW THAT SHOW UP IN THE
SECTION IT&apos;S HARD TO ADD
ANYTHING WHERE THE ROOF IS NOT
THE WATER IS NOT BEING PITCHED
IN TO THAT ADDITION.
SO ON THE NEXT SLIDE JUST IN
THE BACK AREA WHICH IS ON JOE&apos;S
SLIDE TO FIND A NOTE THE THE
SMALLER
IMAGE OR PHOTO SHOWS
THE CONFLUENCE OF DOWNSPOUTS
AND GUTTERS COMING INTO THAT
AREA BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE ALL
THE WATER IS BEING DUMPED IN
THAT CORNER RIGHT NOW RATHER
THAN KIND OF HALF THAT OUT TO
THE STREET TOWARDS WILLIAM AND
HALF OF IT DOWN THIS AND
AROUND.
&gt;&gt; SO AND SO JUST IN TERMS
OF SQUARE FOOTAGE, AS YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S LIKE SIX SIXTY FIVE SIX
SEVENTY FIVE FOR THE FLOOR
PLANS FOOTPRINT&apos;S SO AROUND
THIRTEEN HUNDRED FOR THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF THE HOUSE BASEMENT
YOU KNOW SIX SIXTY FIVE THAT
AGAIN GOT COMPROMISED HEIGHTS.
SO THE PROPOSED EIGHTY EIGHTY
EIGHT RESTROOM SIXTY SQUARE
FEET AND THE OFFICE ADDITION ON
THE MEZZANINE WOULD BE ONE
HUNDRED SIXTY.
SO NONE OF THESE ARE VERY
LARGE.
I MEAN IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A PRETTY SMALL
STRUCTURE TO START WITH AND I
WOULD STILL BE TELLING THE NEXT
SLIDE JUST WHAT IS CHARACTER
DEFINING ABOUT THIS STRUCTURE
AND AS AN ARCHITECT THIS IS
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE OUR OUR
OFFICE OFFICES PERFECTIVE AND
JUST LOOKING AT THIS REALLY
CLOSELY OF WHAT DEFINES THIS
ABOUT TO MAKE IT HISTORICAL OR
SIGNIFICANT AND THAT STRONG
GABLE FORM IN THE NORTH SOUTH
DIRECTION THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT.
THE FRONT PORCH WITH THE GABLE
ROOF US THE CHARACTER OF THE
HOUSE AND THEN THAT FRONT
CENTER GABAL THE DORMER ON THE
SECOND FLOOR THEY KIND
OF CENTERS THE FRONT PORCH
AGAIN NICELY DONE AND
IDENTIFIES THE BAY WINDOW ON
THE NORTH THAT WE&apos;RE KIND
OF GUESSING NOW WHERE THE FRONT
DOOR MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
YOU KNOW THAT ALSO SORT
OF ANCHORS THE CORNER NICELY.
SO THE AND THE SIGHTING OF THE
HOUSE IN GENERAL JUST IT&apos;S
RAISED ABOUT THE STREET AND THE
SIDEWALK AND ELEVATED AND IT
KIND OF MARKS THE CORNER NICELY
.
SO SIMPLE WINDOWS THE DOUBLE
HUNG TRANSOMS ABOVE THE PICTURE
WINDOWS ON THE PORCH, THE SMALL
ROUND ONES IN THE UPPER GABLES
AND THE PAINT COLORS.
I KNOW A HISTORIC DISTRICT
ISN&apos;T REALLY DOING THINGS ON
PAINT COLORS BUT I THINK IT
WORKS NICELY AND THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S
BEEN THERE FOR SOME YEARS.
SO IN THE FRONT OF IT, YOU
KNOW, IT&apos;S REALLY THE FRONT
SCENE FROM FIRST AND THEN FROM
THE CORNER AS SEEN FROM THE
NORTHEAST OF WILLIAM AND FIRST
AND THAT GARAGE IS A LITTLE BIT
SET BACK AND I KNOW THAT YOU&apos;RE
AGONIZING OVER THE AGE OF THE
GARAGE AND IF CONTRIBUTES TO
THE CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE AND
THE STRUCTURE AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, ALTHOUGH IT IS
OLDER, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S UP TO THE
PROPERTY LINE TO US IT DOESN&apos;T
SEEM LIKE A WONDERFUL AMENITY
THAT DEFINES THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I MEAN THE THE GARAGE THAT&apos;S
ATTACHED TO THE TEAL HOUSE TO
THE LEFT OF IT NOW IS SET BACK.
IT&apos;S AN OLDER ONE.
IT&apos;S GOT OLDER TYPE OF GARAGE
DOORS WITH THIS ON WE WERE
TRYING TO BE SENSITIVE TO IT BY
SETTING THE ADDITION BACK THREE
AND A HALF FEET.
WE COULD SET IT BACK A LITTLE
BIT MORE BUT WE WERE ALSO
TRYING TO KEEP THE GABLE
PROPORTIONAL TO THE FRONT ONE
SO THAT THAT KIND OF CAME
THROUGH AND WAS SIMILAR IN SIZE
SO IT DIDN&apos;T LOOK LIKE AN UGLY
DWARFED LITTLE THING ON THE
BACK.
IT WAS PROPORTIONAL TO THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
SO ON THE NEXT SLIDE, UM I
THINK JILL HAS HIT THESE WITH
HER SLIDES BUT YOU KNOW, THE
PROPOSED AHADY RESTROOM IS
TUCKED INTO THAT SOUTHWEST
CORNER.
THE REMOVAL OF THAT CHIMNEY
JUST DOESN&apos;T FEEL LIKE REMOVING
A CHARACTER DEFINING ELEMENT
AND WHAT IT DOES DO FOR US IS
ALLOWS A PASSAGE THROUGH THE
KITCHEN AND THROUGH THE
STAIRWAY TO THE BASEMENT
WITHOUT KIND OF WINDING THROUGH
THE KITCHEN AND GETTING
INTERFERED WITH THE DOORS TO
THE ADA OR THE DOOR TO THE ADA
RESTROOM AND GIVING A WIDER
STAIRWAY GOING DOWN AND THE
PROPOSED OFFICE MEZZANINE SET
BACK FROM THE NORTH FRONT FACE
IN THE GARAGE AND THEN THE
MEZZANINE EDITION ROOF SHEDS
WATERPROOF AT LEAST FOUR AND A
HALF TO THE NORTH AND HALF TO
THE SOUTH RATHER THAN IT ALL
ENDING UP ON THE SOUTH AND THE
POST OFFICE EDITION COMPLEMENTS
THE ORIGINAL ROOFLINE IN THE
SIDING AND ROOF DEALING
DETAILING WE&apos;D BE VERY HAPPY TO
DO CEMENT BOARD SIDING OR
ENCLOSE THE RAFT OR TAILS
OF WHATEVER IS DEEMED TO BE
MOST IN KEEPING WITH WE DID
INCLUDE A AND EGRESSED SIZE
WINDOW ON THE NORTH FACE
THINKING THAT IT COULD BE A
SLEEPING ROOM AND IF THEY WERE
TO HAVE AN EGRESS WINDOW THE
ONES ON THE SOUTH ARE JUST MORE
FOR VENTILATION THAT&apos;S ABOVE
THE RESTROOM.
SO THAT SLIDE IS JUST JUST TO
HIT THE HIGHLIGHTS HERE THAT
IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, THINGS THAT ARE
UNUSUAL.
HERE&apos;S THE SITES COMMERCIALLY
ZONED.
IT&apos;S ON THE EDGE OF THE OLD
WEST SIDE.
IT HAS TWO FRONT S FIRST AND ON
W WILLIAM IT HAS NO FIRST FLOOR
RESTROOM THE GARAGE ROOF IS
SLOPING TO THE SOUTH AND IT&apos;S
RESULTING IN WATER POOLED ON
THE SOUTHWEST CORNER AND THE
COMMERCIAL OFFICE USE AT THIS
LOCATION AS IDEAL AT THE FRINGE
OF THE DOWNTOWN AND NEAR THE
RAILROAD TRACKS SINCE IT&apos;S HARD
TO SLEEP HERE ON A REGULAR
BASIS AND ADDITIONAL MEZZANINE
OFFICE SPACE MAKES THIS HOUSE
USABLE FOR OFFICE MEETINGS AND
IT SUPPLEMENTS THE FIRST FLOOR
ONE ROOM OFFICE SPACE.
OK, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO ASK THE
COMMISSIONERS IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
SEEN ON OVER THERE.
&gt;&gt; NO QUESTIONS OVER HERE AS
WELL.
OK, SO NOW WE GOT TO GO TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND SO WE&apos;LL
OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS ITEM AND IT&apos;S AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THIS APPLICATION AT 404 S
FIRST.
SO THE PHONE NUMBER IS ON THE
AGENDA AND PRESS STAR NINE IF
YOU&apos;RE ON YOUR PHONE, THERE&apos;S
NO ONE HERE.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE ON THE
PHONE?
NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO NOW WE&apos;LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND I&apos;LL ASK
COMMISSIONER TO PLEASE MAKE A
MOTION
.
I&apos;LL READ COMMISSIONER QUIJANO,
PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
TAKE YOUR TIME.
OK, NOW I THINK THERE MIGHT BE
TWO MOTIONS ON THE WORKSHEET.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT RIGHT NOW WHAT
YOU&apos;RE SEEING THERE&apos;S JUST ONE
OK, VERY ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 404 S VERSTRAETE
,THE CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT THAT A SMALL ADDITION
TO THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THE
HOUSE.
YOU CAN ADD A SECOND STORY
ABOVE A ONE CAR FRAME GARAGE TO
REMOVE THE CHIMNEY AND INSTALL
A NEW CONCRETE PARKING PAD AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE, NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AS WELL THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS AND
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES SUPPORT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
THAT WAS A MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER QUIJANO AND IT WAS
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
AND SO NOW WE&apos;LL OPEN UP A
DISCUSSION HERE AND I THINK
WILL WE&apos;LL CATEGORIZE THE
DISCUSSION IN A FEW DIFFERENT
WAYS HERE.
AND FIRST LET&apos;S JUST TALK ABOUT
THE CHIMNEY.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE&apos;VE HEARD SOME
SOME COMMENTS ALREADY ABOUT THE
CHIMNEY BASICALLY THEM BEING
THAT IT&apos;S REALLY IT MIGHT BE A
POSSIBLY A CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURE BUT IT&apos;S NOT A
SIGNIFICANT ONE IN ANY WAY IN
FACT, IT&apos;S PROBABLY A
INSIGNIFICANT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE OF ANYTHING.
I THINK THAT&apos;S WHAT WE HEARD.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY COMMENTS
TO RAISE OR DISPUTE THAT?
OK, SO I THINK THAT WE&apos;RE CLEAR
ON THE CHIMNEY AND NOW WE&apos;VE
ALSO HEARD ABOUT THE GARAGE AND
THAT IS REALLY THE CRUX I THINK
OF THIS APPLICATION HERE IS
WHETHER OR NOT THE GARAGE IS
CONTRIBUTING.
AND SO WE&apos;VE HEARD FROM STAFF
THAT THAT THE GARAGE IS
CONTRIBUTING AND SO LET&apos;S JUST
GO WITH THAT AND AND I WONDER
IF ANYONE HAS ANY COMMENTS ON
THE GARAGE BEING CONTRIBUTING,
DO YOU SUPPORT THAT THE GARAGE
IS CONTRIBUTING?
DO YOU DISAGREE WITH THAT
STATEMENT?
IT&apos;D BE NICE TO HEAR FROM SOME
OF THE COMMISSIONERS ON THAT
COMMISSION OR WHAT I THINK IT&apos;S
CONTRIBUTING.
WELL, I ALSO BELIEVE THAT WE
COULD PUT SOMETHING ON TOP
OF THE AND STILL KEEP
CONTRIBUTING PART IN THE FRONT
AND THAT&apos;S THE I THINK WE
SHOULD BUILD FOR IT ANY OTHER
COMMENTS ON THE GARAGE?
&gt;&gt; OUR RESPONSE TO THAT COMMENT
I MEAN IT&apos;S NOT LIKE WE HAVEN&apos;T
APPROVED, YOU KNOW, ADDITIONS
ON ON TOP OF CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURES.
RIGHT.
WE WE&apos;VE DONE THAT BEFORE AND
THEN IT COMES DOWN TO THE SCALE
ON THE MACING AND HOW THAT
COMPARES TO THE REST OF THE
PROPERTY AND IF IT DETRACTS
FROM THE REST OF THE STRUCTURE.
SO IF WE DO THAT HELP IF WE
THINK OF THEM THAT WAY, DO WE
THINK OF IT IN TERMS OF THE
IMPACT ON A STRUCTURE AS A
WHOLE?
SO THE IMPACT OF THE ADDITION
ON THE STRUCTURE BECAUSE IT&apos;S A
IT&apos;S A SMALL PART OF THE WHOLE
IT&apos;S A BIG RIGHT.
WELL, I THINK LET&apos;S JUST LET&apos;S
JUST
FOCUS ON IS THE GARAGE
CONTRIBUTING OR NOT AND THEN
WE&apos;LL TALK ABOUT THE ADDITIONS
IN A SECOND AND HOW THE
ADDITION DOES OR DOES NOT
REMOVE THE CONTRIBUTING
PORTIONS OF THE GARAGE.
BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE PEOPLE ARE
COMFORTABLE WITH THE GARAGE
BEING CONTRIBUTING, NOT HEARING
ANYONE SAY THAT THE GARAGE IS
NOT A CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE.
AND I WOULD ALSO AGREE WITH
THAT THAT THE GARAGE IS
CONTRIBUTING.
I THINK THAT THIS LOT WE&apos;VE
HEARD ABOUT THE DIFFICULTIES
OF THIS LOT AND IT IS IS A
CORNER LOT AND IN PARTICULAR I
THINK THAT&apos;S THE BIGGEST ISSUE
IS THAT CORNER LOTS ARE VERY
DIFFICULT TO TO ACHIEVE THE THE
YOU KNOW, THE THE KIND OF THE
COUNTER THE COUNTER STANDARDS
OF YOU NEED TO BE COMPATIBLE
AND SOMEHOW YOU NEED TO
DIFFERENTIATE AND IT&apos;S AND YOU
KNOW WHAT YOU&apos;RE BUILDING IF
IT&apos;S IN THE REAR IT&apos;S VERY EASY
TO BE COMPATIBLE BECAUSE YOU
DON&apos;T SEE IT FROM THE SIDEWALK.
AND SO YEAH, WE WE HAVE
APPROVED MANY SECOND FLOORS ON
TOP OF ON TOP OF FIRST FLOORS A
LOT OF TIMES IT&apos;S IT&apos;S EITHER
IN THE BACK OR IF IT&apos;S IN THE
SIDE SORT OF IN THE THE REAR
OF THE PROPERTY ON THE SIDE.
SO THIS IS SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
THAN THE ONES AT LEAST THAT I
HAVE IN MY MIND.
BUT I GUESS I&apos;M GETTING AHEAD
OF MYSELF IN THAT I GUESS NOW
LET&apos;S LET&apos;S TALK ABOUT THE
ADDITIONS ITSELF NOW THAT WE WE
ARE ALL IN SOMEWHAT AGREEMENT
AT LEAST THAT THAT THE GARAGE
IS CONTRIBUTING IN SOME WAY SO
IMPORTANT WE PICK BACK UP AND I
COMMENT YOU WERE SAYING EARLIER
ABOUT HOW YOU FEEL THE ADDITION
DOESN&apos;T JUST CONTRIBUTE THAT
GENERALLY WHEN WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT
ADDITIONS ON THE IMPACT OF THE
TOTAL STRUCTURE AND THE THE
PERCENTAGE OF SQUARE FOOTAGE
AND YOU KNOW, THOSE THINGS AND
SO IT CERTAINLY FALLS WITHIN
THE GUIDELINES FOR THOSE
CONSIDERATIONS IF WE&apos;RE JUST
LOOKING AT THE IMPACT ON THE
GARAGE THEN IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
DOUBLING THE SIZE OF THE
GARAGE, MAYBE MORE SO DO WE DO
WE APPLY THE WHOLE BUILDING?
&gt;&gt; YES, I THINK WE DO APPLY THE
WHOLE BUILDING.
IF THE GARAGE IS A SEPARATE
STRUCTURE THEN IT WOULD JUST BE
THE GARAGE.
BUT SINCE THE GARAGE IS
ATTACHED THEN YEAH, I AGREE
THAT IT&apos;S WE LOOK AT IT AS THE
ENTIRE BUILDING AND IT IS QUITE
A SMALL PART OF THE FOOTPRINT.
HI AL.
I&apos;LL INTERJECT WITH THE COMMENT
ABOUT THE GARAGE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT THE IN
PARTICULAR I THINK THAT THE
PARAPET OF THE GARAGE IS A
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
OF THAT GARAGE AND SO IF THE
GARAGE IS CONTRIBUTING I REALLY
FEEL LIKE THE PARAPET IS ALMOST
THE KEY CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURE OF THAT GARAGE AND THE
DOOR AND THE PARAPET AND THE
ROOF.
&gt;&gt; SO REMOVING THE PARAPET TO
ME IS IS NOT APPROPRIATE AND SO
IT SEEMS MINOR IN TERMS OF THE
ENTIRE ADDITION BUT I CAN&apos;T
THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S PRESENTED HERE SO
I&apos;M NOT EVEN GETTING TO THE
REST BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE I&apos;VE
KIND OF STUCK RIGHT THERE AND
AND ON THE PARAPET THIS YEAR
FROM WEEK TO OH WE CAN ASK A
QUESTION.
LET&apos;S HEAR FROM COMMISSIONER
ROSS AND YES, BECAUSE YOU SAID
SO DO WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO
ASK A QUESTION OF THE APPLICANT
STILL THAT&apos;S EXACTLY WHAT IT
CAN YOU COME BACK UP THE
PODIUM?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE HAD A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
ONE FROM COMMISSIONER ROSS AND
THEN WE HAVE ANOTHER ONE HERE
FROM COMMISSIONER FORTNER.
BUT COMMISSIONER ROSS, CAN WE
START WITH YOU?
OK, NOT THAT I&apos;M NOT AN
ARCHITECT AND THAT THAT WE&apos;RE
HERE TO DESIGN FOR ANY
PARTICULAR APPLICANT, BUT I WAS
JUST CURIOUS TO UNDERSTAND IF
YOU CAN KIND OF RUN OVER WHY
THIS ADDITION CAN&apos;T BE SPLIT
OVER SLID BACK TOWARDS THE REAR
WALL OF THIS BATHROOM ADDITION
SO THAT THE GARAGE COULD SIT A
LITTLE BIT MORE TRUE IN TERMS
OF AT LEAST THE PARAPET IN THE
SCOPE OR SORRY IN THE I&apos;M
SORRY IT HAS TO BE PUSHED SO
MUCH FORWARD BECAUSE LOOKING AT
THE FLOOR PLAN IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
TO BE YOU KNOW, WE WERE
PLANNING A GOOD QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; WE WERE REALLY CENTERING IT
ON THE DOOR FROM THE MEZZANINE
LEVEL OF THE STAIRWAY AND THEN
AND BACKING IT UP FROM THE
FRONT OF THE FACE OF THE
GARAGE.
WE CAN&apos;T THE FLOOR OF THAT
MEZZANINE CAN&apos;T OVERLAP OVERTOP
OF THE RESTROOM BECAUSE THERE
ARE DIFFERENT HEIGHT.
SO WE CAN&apos;T GO ANY FURTHER ON
THAT SIDE.
I MEAN WE COULD SHORTEN IT UP,
YOU KNOW, A FOOT SAY ON THE
FRONT PART WE WERE SLOPING THE
ROOF ON TOP TO SHED WATER.
&gt;&gt; BUT IF WE WOULD CERTAINLY BE
WILLING TO COMPROMISE AND LEAVE
THE SOUTHWESTERN FRONT THERE
AND FIGURE OUT A WAY TO CAPTURE
WATER INSIDE THERE AND GET IT
OUT.
BUT RIGHT NOW IT WAS REALLY
ABOUT SHEDDING WATER OUT TO THE
STREET AND AWAY FROM THE
STRUCTURE.
&gt;&gt; SO HOW SET BACK FROM THE
NORTH FACADE IS THE FOUR STORY
ADDITION OVER THE GARAGE?
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE IT&apos;S THREE FOOT
SEVEN BUT I AM WORKING FROM
MEMORY HERE.
IF YOU GO BACK TO THE ACTUAL
PICTURE OF THE HOUSE.
SO I THINK TERESA, YOU HAD TOLD
ME ON SITE THAT IT WOULD START
WHERE THAT CLOSET WINDOW IS.
YES, YEAH.
BECAUSE IF YOU LOOK AT THE
PROPOSED PLAN SO ON THE SECOND
FLOOR PLAN A ONE OH ONE SO YOU
CAN SEE WHERE THE WINDOW IS
INFILL THERE ON THE SECOND
FLOOR AND WE WERE LINING WITH
THAT THOUGH I THINK REALLY IT
HAD TO DO WITH THE CENTER LINE
OF THE GABLE UP ABOVE.
SO ANYWAY WE COULD WE COULD
BRING IT IN ANOTHER FOOT OR
SOMETHING IF THAT MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
IT&apos;S ALREADY THREE FOOT SEVEN
BACK BUT IF YOU KNOW IF FOUR
FOOT SEVEN WAS THE HAPPY MEDIUM
FOR EVERYONE, WE JUST WE CAN&apos;T
EXTEND IT OVER THE TOP OF THE
RESTROOM BECAUSE IT&apos;S A
DIFFERENT HEIGHT.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE SECTION
THERE THAT&apos;S ON THAT LAST PAGE,
I THINK IT KIND OF SHOWS THE
YEAH, RIGHT WHERE THE WHERE THE
FIRST FLOOR IS AND WHERE THE
FIRST FLOOR CEILING IS WHAT
THAT COULD BE JUST DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN INTERIOR.
SO YOU SHOW WITH THE IS THERE A
DIFFERENT MATERIAL THAT YOU
DIDN&apos;T SHOW YOU CAN LOOK AT IT
AND YOU SEE WHAT USED TO BE
THERE THAT&apos;S JUST THE THE
DRUDGE REPORT AND ABOVE IT ON
THE SECOND FLOOR WE HAVE A KIND
OF A DIFFERENT MATERIAL, A
DIFFERENT SIDE SO YOU CAN SEE
WHAT USED TO BE THERE FROM A
LARGE PORTION YET THE SECOND
FLOOR HAS A DIFFERENT
DISTINGUISHED YES.
THAT WOULD BE VERY AGREEABLE
BECAUSE IT IS KIND OF AN
UNUSUALLY TALL I THINK BECAUSE
IT HAS TO SO FAR BACK TO THE
SOUTH SIDE IN TERMS OF THE
PITCH INSIDE.
&gt;&gt; BUT YEAH, WE COULD LEAVE
THAT THAT HEIGHT THERE.
IT WOULD BE NICE TO THE ROOF
ON TOP OF IT IS THE SHED TO
SHED WATER OFF OTHERWISE IT&apos;S
KIND OF A FLAT ROOF INSIDE THAT
ARE THEN TRYING TO CAPTURE
WATER AND BRING THROUGH THE
INTERIOR IN THE GUTTER OR
SOMETHING AND SHOOT IT OUT
THROUGH THERE.
SO IT JUST MAKE THINGS A LITTLE
MORE COMPLICATED FOR WATER
SHEDDING IF IT WAS JUST THE
FALSE FRONT WITHOUT A PITCHED
ROOF UP ABOVE IT I THINK I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT IT&apos;S HARD TO
COMMENT BECAUSE NOW WE&apos;RE JUST
CHANGING THINGS SORT
OF MIDSTREAM HERE.
BUT YEAH, OBVIOUSLY YEAH WE IF
YOU IF THE GARAGE ROOF IS
SLOPING BACK TO THE ADDITION
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S NOT A GOOD
SITUATION.
&gt;&gt; YES.
WELL YEAH I AGREE THAT WATER IS
ALWAYS COMPLICATES THINGS.
YEAH I BUT TO TOUCH UPON SOME
OF THE COMMENTS MADE BY THE
COMMISSIONERS HERE I AGREE IF
WE&apos;RE SAYING THAT THE GARAGE
STRUCTURE IS CONTRIBUTING THEN
THOSE FRONT FACING FEATURES
OF IT ALTHOUGH YOU KNOW NOT THE
SAME LEVEL OF THE MAIN HOUSE
THOSE ARE THE FEW FEATURES THAT
THAT WE DO SEE FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT AWAY.
SO THAT PARAPET THAT
CONFIGURATION I WOULD SAY IS
SIGNIFICANT FOR THE GARAGE.
SO AUTHORING THAT WITH A FLOAT
KIND OF SHED NEW SHED ROOF I
WOULD NOT SUPPORT BUT THEN ALSO
FOR THE THE SECOND STORY
ADDITION I AGREE THAT
DISTINGUISHING THE MATERIALS
OF THE NEW CONSTRUCTION WOULD
HELP THE CASE TO HELP
DIFFERENTIATE THE NEW AND THE
OLD.
BUT YEAH, I AGREE IT WOULD MAKE
FOR INTERESTING WATER
MANAGEMENT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M CIRCLING BACK AROUND TO
COMMISSIONER FOURTEENERS
COMMENT EARLIER KIND
OF STRUGGLING WITH IS THIS IN A
GARAGE EDITION OR IS THIS A
HOUSE EDITION?
I&apos;M ACTUALLY COMING BACK AROUND
COMPLETELY I THINK AND
REALIZING THAT I THOUGHT I MEAN
JUST SQUARE FOOTAGE WISE
OBVIOUSLY IT COUNTS FOR THE
WHOLE HOUSE BUT I THINK THAT
THIS IS AN ADDITION ON TOP OF A
GARAGE IS WHAT IT IS AN
ACCESSORY BUILDING LET&apos;S SAY
THIS ATTACH IF ACCESSORY
BUILDING WAS ONE FOOT OFF
OF THE HOUSE AND NOT ATTACHED,
THIS WOULD NOT BE APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD DESTROY THE
CHARACTER OF THE GARAGE AND
THAT&apos;S THAT JUST I FEEL LIKE IS
WHAT IS HAPPENING HERE THAT
WHEN YOU WILL LOOK AT THIS
COMPLETED STRUCTURE, THE
GARAGE, THE CHARACTER OF THE
GARAGE IS GOING TO BE
COMPLETELY DESTROYED
UNFORTUNATELY BY THIS SECOND
STORY I THINK THAT AN ADDITION
WOULD WORK ON THIS HOUSE AND I
THINK THAT THE ADDITION IS
APPROPRIATE WHERE IT IS IF IT
WAS A ONE STOREY, YOU KNOW,
BACK WING OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT, WE SEE A LOT OF THOSE
WHERE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOT DESTROYING
THE CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE
BECAUSE THAT THAT LITTLE WING
WASN&apos;T, YOU KNOW, KIND
OF DISTINGUISHED IN ITS OWN AS
AN ENTITY.
I REALLY DON&apos;T THINKING THAT
THAT THIS YEAH.
SO ANYWAY THAT&apos;S SORT
OF SUMMARIZING MY LATEST
THINKING.
BE NICE TO HEAR COMMENTS ABOUT
THAT.
I AGREE.
YEAH.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS
.
NO NO.
WITHOUT TRYING TO DESIGN THAT
WITH RIGHT PURVIEW.
YEAH.
SO I GUESS TO SUMMARIZE THE THE
THE THE FIRST FLOOR EDITION IN
THE BACK CORNER I HAVEN&apos;T HEARD
ANY COMMENTS THAT SAID THAT
THAT IS NOT APPROPRIATE.
IT REALLY COMES DOWN TO
MODIFYING THE FRONT OF THE
GARAGE AND THEN ALSO BUILDING
AN ADDITION ON TOP OF THE
GARAGE AS PROPOSED HERE.
I MEAN IT&apos;S POSSIBLE THAT THAT
SOME OTHER PROPOSED EDITION I
WOULD NOT FEEL WOULD WOULD
WOULD WRECK THE CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES BUT IN AN
UNEXPECTED IF IF THE ADDITIONS
WERE NOT PUT ON THE TOP IT&apos;S
THE SECOND FLOOR DESIGN WAS NOT
ADDED TO THE GARAGE THE FIRST
FLOOR BATHROOM EDITION WOULD
STILL REQUIRE CHANGES TO THE
ROOF OF THE GARAGE BECAUSE YOU
GET YOUR SAME WATER FLOW ISSUE
AGAIN BECAUSE THE FIRST FLOOR
DISH BATHROOM WOULD BE HIGHER.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD BE A TOTALLY
REDESIGN PROJECT IF THEY WERE
JUST DOING A ONE STORY
ADDITION.
I THINK THAT THE ARCHITECT
WOULD PROBABLY COME UP WITH A
DIFFERENT SOLUTION.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
WE PLUG AND PLAY I I WAS
BASICALLY JUST RESTATING THAT
JUST SO YOU KIND OF KNOW WHERE
WHERE WE&apos;RE AT.
I KNOW THAT YOU DIDN&apos;T PROVIDE
THIS WITH TWO DIFFERENT SIDES
JUST JUST TO BE CLEAR KIND
OF WHAT WE&apos;RE HEARING HERE.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
BEFORE WE GO TO A VOTE?
OK, HEARING NONE.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YEAH, ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO, NO, NO.
&gt;&gt; THE MOTION DOES NOT CARRY SO
IF YOU WANT IF YOU WANT TO
RESUBMIT YEAH.
AS LONG AS THE NEW APPLICATION
IS SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT WAS NOT APPROVED HERE
TONIGHT THEN THE COMMISSION
WILL WILL ACCEPT A NEW
APPLICATION TO LOOK AT
SOMETHING DIFFERENT AND I HAVE
ABSOLUTELY NOT WASTE MY
CLIENT&apos;S TIME NOR AM I SO SO IF
WE WERE TO GIVE HATE TO ASK BUT
IF YOU LOOK AT IT LIKE THE
SECOND FLOOR OR WHATEVER IF WE
WERE TO ADD ON TOP ON TOP
OF PART OF THE GARAGE IS THE
SECOND IF WE BECAUSE AT THAT
POINT IT&apos;S HIGHER WE COULD IT
WOULD RESULT POSSIBLY IN THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ENLARGE A LITTLE
BACK BEDROOM THERE IF WE WERE
TO THEN BRING OUT THE WALL TO
ALIGN WITH KIND OF CLOSE TO
WHERE THEY STAIRWAY WALL IS OR
WHERE THE WINDOW IS FROM THE
STAIRWAY.
BUT WE WOULD HAVE TO SOLVE THE
THE FLAT ROOF PROBLEM OF THE
GARAGE WHICH SOUNDS LIKE A
PITCH IS NOT ALLOWABLE.
SO I A PITCHED ROOF THAT&apos;S
SEPARATELY AS A SHED ON TOP
OF SO IS THAT DIFFERENT ENOUGH
TO BE ABLE TO COME BACK AND
TALK ABOUT THAT RESEARCHER IS
THAT A QUESTION FOR YOU?
I I CAN&apos;T VISUALIZE JUST DRIVE
AROUND OK?
I&apos;M SORRY THAT&apos;S I THINK I KNOW
WHAT YOU MEANT BUT I&apos;M NOT SURE
OK.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK I MEAN PLEASE CONTACT THE
CONTACT THE CITY AND ASK THAT
SAME QUESTION AGAIN AND WE&apos;LL
BE HAPPY TO WORK WITH YOU IF
YOU EVER WANT TO RUN SOMETHING
BY ME I CAN ALSO SEND IT TO THE
THREE OFFICERS AND JUST CONFIRM
WITH THEM, YOU KNOW, IS THIS
OK?
IS A SUBSTANTIAL ENOUGH NOT
LIKE FINISH DRAWINGS JUST LIKE
YOU KNOW SOMETHING ON A NAPKIN
IS FINE.
OK, THANK YOU.
OK WE WILL MOVE ON TO HEARING F
FOR FIFTEEN TEN BROAD MISS
DACHER WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE THE
STAFF REPORT.
I WILL MOMENT OK TAKE A MOMENT
ALL RIGHT.
FIFTEEN TEN BROADWAY IS IN THE
BROADWAY HISTORIC DISTRICT
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT THIS BARN
TONIGHT.
IT IS NEXT TO A HIGH STYLE
ITALIANATE WHICH WAS BUILT IN
1862 THOUGH IT MAY HAVE BEEN
OLDER THAN THAT BUT THIS IS THE
ONE OF THE THREE QUARTER STORY
BARN ON THE WEST PROPERTY LINE.
IT USES THE ADDRESS FIFTEEN TEN
IN THE HOUSE, FIFTEEN TWENTY
BROADWAY.
IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A COOL BARN.
IT&apos;S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT HAS A LOT OF ORIGINAL FEEL
TO IT AND YOU&apos;RE GOING TO SEE
APPROVAL TO INSTALL A NEW WOOD
PERSON DOOR IN A NEW OPENING ON
THE REAR WALL OF THE BARN WHICH
IS A CONTRIBUTING HISTORIC
STRUCTURE.
SO THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
BARN.
THE HOUSE IS OVER THERE ON THE
LEFT YOU COULD SEE IT BIG BRICK
ITALIANATE VERY COOL AND THE
BARN IS QUITE A WAYS AWAY FROM
THE HOUSE.
IT HAS ITS OWN DRIVEWAY GOING
DOWN HERE.
I&apos;M STANDING ON THE SIDEWALK
WHEN I TAKE THIS IT&apos;S SLIGHTLY
SKEWED BECAUSE IT&apos;S ONE
OF THOSE WIDE ANGLE SHOTS BUT
IT&apos;S A GOOD WAY FROM THE STREET
THE VERY TRADITIONAL BARN
DESIGN HAS TWO WINDOWS ON THIS
ELEVATION AND THERE&apos;S A THERE&apos;S
A THERE&apos;S A DOOR HINGE DOOR
HERE AND HINGE DOOR ON THE
FRONT.
THE BACK HAS WINDOWS ON THE
SECOND FLOOR BUT THE FIRST
FLOOR IS COMPLETELY OPENING
VOID OF OPENINGS.
IF YOU LOOK RIGHT HERE, A
COUPLE OF STEPPING STONES HAVE
BEEN PLACED WHERE THE WHERE THE
DOOR WOULD BE LOCATED ON THE
BACK OF THE GARAGE AND AGAIN
THIS IS JUST A PERSON DOOR
MINIMAL TRIM JUST VERY STRAIGHT
FORWARD SINCE THIS IS ON THE
BACK IT WOULD NOT BE VISIBLE
FROM THE STREET.
THIS IS REQUIRED FOR
CODE PURPOSES.
THEY WANT TO EXCUSE ME TO
FINISH PORTIONS OF THE INTERIOR
AND YOU&apos;RE NOT ALLOWED TO HAVE
JUST THE ONE SLIDING BARN DOOR
AS YOUR EGRESS DOOR.
SO ADDING ANOTHER PERSON DOOR
ON THE BACK BECOMES NECESSARY.
THIS IS IT HERE YOU HAVE JUST A
NEW SIMPLE PAVERS.
THIS WOULD NOT BE USED AS A
DWELLING UNIT OR AS AN
ACCESSORY APARTMENT OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT AND IT&apos;S SUPPOSED TO
BE FINISHED SPACE FOR AN
GALLERY HAS A SKYLIGHT UP HERE
UP TOP ALREADY THERE&apos;S THE
DOOR.
IT IS ABOUT SIMPLE WOOD
VERTICAL BOARD PLANK.
IT WOULD BE PAINTED TO MATCH
THE RED BARN.
I HAVE ALREADY READ STANDARDS
TWO FIVE AND NINE TO TONIGHT
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
ACCESSIBILITY.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
OR ADDITIONAL MEANS OF ACCESS
THAT ARE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC BUILDING IN THE
SETTING WHICH IS FROM
GUIDELINES FOR ENTRANCES.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL ENTRANCES
REQUIRED FOR NEW USE IN A
MANNER THAT PRESERVES THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING.
BUT LIMITING THEM TO NON
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATIONS
WHICH THIS CERTAINLY DOES NOT
RECOMMENDED IS CUTTING NEW
ENTRANCES ON PRIMARY ELEVATIONS
.
THIS IS NOT ALTERING
UTILITARIAN OR SERVICE ENTRANCE
SO THEY APPEAR TO BE FORMAL
ENTRANCE IS NOT APPLICABLE AND
STAFF BELIEVES THAT THIS IS
COMPLETELY APPROPRIATE
APPLICATION IN ALL WAYS AND
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
SO NOW LET&apos;S HEAR FROM OUR
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
I DON&apos;T REALLY HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD TO THAT.
OK, HERE IT IS BACK BACK CORNER
OF THE LOT THAT DOOR WILL BE
INVISIBLE TO ANYBODY WHO ISN&apos;T
WALKING BACK THERE
.
YEAH, I I AGREE THAT THE
LOCATION IS PROBABLY THE MOST
INCONSPICUOUS LOCATION IT COULD
BE VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THE APPLICANT PLEASE STEP TO
THE PODIUM STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS YOU COULD SPEAK OF FOR
UP TO FIVE MINUTES AND EGRESS
DOOR IF YOU&apos;D LIKE.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD TO
THE STAFF REPORT OR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE?
DAVID LEWIS FOR SOUTH MAIN
STREET ANN ARBOR DO NOT HAVE
ANYTHING REALLY TO ADD.
I THINK JILL DID A GOOD JOB
COVERING THINGS JUST TO KIND
OF REITERATE YOU&apos;RE THE
HOMEOWNER HAD NO DESIRE TO PUT
THE STORY NECESSARILY.
SHE WAS VERY SENSITIVE ABOUT
KEEPING THE EXTERIOR THE BARN
AS IS PROMISED STRICT
GUIDELINES AND IT WAS ONLY THIS
PROPOSED DOOR IS ONLY BEING
PROPOSED BECAUSE IT&apos;S A
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
REQUIREMENT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONERS.
ANY QUESTIONS NOW?
&gt;&gt; OK, NOW LET&apos;S OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS FOR
THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS
APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; PHONE NUMBERS ARE ON THE
AGENDA AT AS IS THE MEETING ID.
THERE&apos;S NO ONE HERE PRESENT AND
THERE&apos;S NO ONE ON THE PHONE.
&gt;&gt; SO WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WILL ASK WHAT A
COMMISSIONER PLEASE MAKE A
MOTION ON THIS APPLICATION.
COMMISSIONER WILL AS WELL.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIFTEEN TEN
BROADWAY STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY AND A BROADWAY
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO INSTALL A
NEW WOOD DOOR IN A NEW OPENING
ON THE REAR ELEVATION OF THE
BAR THE PROPOSED WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS REBELO STATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO FIVE
AND NINE AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ACCESSIBILITY AND ENTRY&apos;S AND
PORCHES SUCCOT THAT WAS MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER WILLIS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
&gt;&gt; NO.
OK, I THINK THIS IS VERY CUT
AND DRY SO WE&apos;RE JUST GOING TO
GO RIGHT TO A VOTE HERE.
&gt;&gt; ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
&gt;&gt; THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OK, THAT IS IT FOR HEARINGS.
SO NOW LOOKING AT THE AGENDA WE
WILL GO TO G NEW BUSINESS AND
WE DO HAVE SOME NEW BUSINESS
TODAY AND IT&apos;S THE ANNUAL
ELECTION OF OFFICERS NOMINATING
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT MISS
THATCHER OH WE ARE I&apos;M ASKING
FOR VOLUNTEERS TO BE THE
NOMINATING COMMITTEE FOR OK
WE&apos;VE GOT A COMMISSIONER WHITE
VOLUNTEERING IS THAT WOULD LIKE
TO JOIN HIM OR ARE YOU OK SOLO
I&apos;M ONE WHO SAID WE WANT NO ONE
WANTS TO DO IT.
I&apos;LL STILL BE OK.
WELL WE APPRECIATE THAT
COMMISSIONER.
WHY THANK YOU
.
OK, THERE&apos;S NO OTHER NEW
BUSINESS SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO THE APPROVAL AND IT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S H H ONE.
LET&apos;S SEE IT SAYS AUGUST 11TH
BUT I&apos;M ALMOST POSITIVE THAT
THE JULY MINUTES WERE SENT OUT
SO THE AGENDA SHOULD READ JULY
AND WE&apos;RE GOING TO LOOK AT THE
JULY 14 FOURTEENTH DRAFT
MEETING MINUTES AND EVERYONE
SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED THOSE.
AND SO IF THERE&apos;S ANY COMMENTS
ON THAT OK, COMMENTS OR
CORRECTIONS NONE.
OK, SO SEEING NONE OF EITHER
OF THOSE, WE WILL APPROVE THE
MINUTES WITHOUT OBJECTION AND
NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO I REPORT
FROM COMMISSIONERS AND I&apos;M NOT
SEEING ANY REPORTS SO LET&apos;S
MOVE ON.
WE&apos;LL GO TO ASSIGNMENTS AND WE
WILL ASSIGN THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE AND WE HAVE ONE
CORRECTION.
YEAH.
REVIEW COMMITTEE ON OCTOBER 10
IS AT NOON.
&gt;&gt; OK, WELL I&apos;LL RAISE MY HANDS
FOR THE WINTER SCHEDULE.
IT&apos;S INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DAY AS
WELL.
IT&apos;S COLUMBUS.
I CAN I CAN DO NOON ON THE
TENTH WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
OCTOBER 10TH IS RIGHT PORT CITY
HALL IS CLOSED THAT DAY.
&gt;&gt; OK, WELL LET&apos;S LET&apos;S LET&apos;S
CHECK THE TAKE A LOOK.
THAT&apos;S WHY I SAID THAT OUT LOUD
DIDN&apos;T SEEM RIGHT BUT IS IT
POSSIBLE THAT WE&apos;LL BE MEETING
ON THE ELEVENTH?
I ACTUALLY I DON&apos;T THINK CITY
HALL IS CLOSED.
OK, VERY GOOD.
SO LET&apos;S LEAVE IT AT THE TENTH
AND IF ON THE TENTH AND I&apos;LL
CHECK THAT OUT BUT I DON&apos;T HAVE
IT ON MY WORK CALENDAR SO KNOW
I DON&apos;T THINK I HAVE IT ALL IF
IT&apos;S A CONFLICT FOR ANY OF YOU
DON&apos;T VOLUNTEER IF YOU&apos;VE GOT
THE DAY OFF CERTAINLY DON&apos;T GO
UNDER REVIEW COMMITTEE
SUPPLEMENTAL ANYONE ELSE WE&apos;VE
GOT ONE TAKER SO FAR.
OK, I GUESS I WILL.
I&apos;M SORRY WAS THAT BEV AND
JENNY ONE OR NO I RAISED MY
HAND ALREADY.
YEAH OK I HAVEN&apos;T DONE IN A
WHILE THE FIVE JUST DON&apos;T WORK
FOR ME BUT DID YOU DECIDE AMONG
YOURSELVES.
YEAH NOVEMBER.
YEAH OK WE HAVE NO MEETING IN
NOVEMBER SO YOU PICKED A GOOD
TIME.
OH OH OK WE HAVE COMMISSIONER
ROSS IN ROCKLAND THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
OK SO WITH ASSIGNMENTS BEING
DONE WE&apos;LL MOVE ON TO K REPORTS
FROM STAFF.
&gt;&gt; THE ONLY THING I HAVE TO
REPORT IS THAT FORTUNATELY AT
COBBLESTONED FARM THIS WEEK
THERE WAS A LOT OF VANDALISM
AND A BUNCH OF WINDOWS GOT
BROKEN ON THE FIRST FLOOR
OF THE HOUSE.
SO IF YOU GO BY AND SEE SOME
BOARDING THAT&apos;S WHY PARK STAFF
HAS BEEN IN TOUCH OR IS GETTING
IN TOUCH.
&gt;&gt; I HAVEN&apos;T TALKED TO HIM IN A
COUPLE OF DAYS WITH THE PEOPLE
WHO REPAIRED THE WINDOWS
PREVIOUSLY AND INSTALLED SOME
REPLICAS AND HOPEFULLY THEY&apos;LL
BE ABLE TO TAKE ON THE WORK AND
QUICKLY.
&gt;&gt; BUT YEAH, WAS THIS LIKE ONE
SINGLE EVENT OR WAS IT IT WAS A
SINGLE EVENT THE WAY I
UNDERSTAND IT.
YEAH.
BEAUREGARDE YEAH.
THE ONES THAT WERE BROKEN I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF THEY THREW
SOMETHING THROUGH THEM OR WHAT
BUT A LOT OF WINDOWS IT SOUNDS
LIKE WE&apos;RE BROKEN AND ON THE
FIRST FLOOR AND THEY&apos;VE BEEN
BOARDED SO I&apos;M STILL KIND
OF WAITING FOR MORE DETAILS BUT
ONCE THEY GET A WINDOW PERSON
OUT THERE AND THEY HAVE MORE
FOR YOU ON THAT, IT&apos;S
UNFORTUNATE VERY.
BUT THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE FOR
REPORTS FROM STAFF.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
AND IT&apos;S GOOD TO HAVE YOU BACK
HERE, MR. THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR BEING HERE WITH US THIS
EVENING.
&gt;&gt; OK, MISS WRIGHT L CONCERN
MYSELF COMMISSIONERS.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY THAT YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO ADDRESS OUT LOUD SEEING
NONE WILL HEAD TO
COMMUNICATIONS AND I DO NOT
BELIEVE THERE ANY GENERAL
COMMUNICATIONS ARE THERE THERE
WAS ONE FOR A PROJECT BUT YEAH
YEAH OK VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; SO IN THAT CASE WE WILL
ADJOURN I CAN ADJOURN THE
SEPTEMBER 8TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
MEETING